ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our managements discussion and analysis is intended to help the reader understand our results of operations and financial condition and is provided as an addition to, and should be read in connection with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Description of the Company and its Business Segments We are a market leading consumer products company with a presence in 95% of households across the United States. We produce and sell products across three broad categories: cooking products, waste and storage products and tableware. We sell our products under iconic brands such as Reynolds and Hefty and also under store brands that are strategically important to our customers. Overall, across both our branded and store brand offerings, we hold the #1 or #2 U.S. market share position in the majority of product categories in which we participate. Over 65% of our revenue comes from products that are #1 in their respective categories. We have developed our market leading position by investing in our product categories and consistently developing innovative products that meet the evolving needs and preferences of the modern consumer. Our mix of branded and store brand products is a key competitive advantage that aligns our goal of growing the overall product categories with our customers goals and positions us as a trusted strategic partner to our retailers. Our Reynolds and Hefty brands have preeminent positions in their categories and carry strong brand recognition in household aisles. We manage our operations in four operating and reportable segments: Reynolds Cooking & Baking, Hefty Waste & Storage, Hefty Tableware and Presto Products: Reynolds Cooking & Baking: Through our Reynolds Cooking & Baking segment, we produce branded and store brand aluminum foil, disposable aluminum pans, parchment paper, freezer paper, wax paper, butcher paper, plastic wrap, baking cups, oven bags and slow cooker liners. Our branded products are sold under the Reynolds Wrap, Reynolds KITCHENS and EZ Foil brands in the United States and selected international markets, under the ALCAN brand in Canada and under the Diamond brand outside of North America. With our flagship Reynolds Wrap products, we hold the #1 market position in the U.S. consumer foil market measured by retail sales and volume. We have no significant branded competitor in this market. Reynolds is one of the most recognized household brands in the United States and has been the top trusted brand in the consumer foil market for 75 years, with greater than 50% market share in most of its categories. Hefty Waste & Storage: Through our Hefty Waste & Storage segment, we produce both branded and store brand trash and food storage bags. Hefty is a well recognized leader in the trash bag and food storage bag categories and our private label products offer value to our retail partners. Our branded products are sold under the Hefty Ultra Strong and Hefty Strong brands for trash bags, and as the Hefty and Baggies brands for our food storage bags. We have the #1 branded market share in the U.S. large black trash bag and slider bag segments, and the #2 branded market share in the tall kitchen trash bag segment. Our robust product portfolio in this segment includes a full suite of products, including sustainable solutions such as blue and clear recycling bags, compostable bags, bags made from recycled materials and the Hefty EnergyBag Program. Hefty Tableware: Through our Hefty Tableware segment, we sell both branded and store brand disposable and compostable plates, bowls, platters, cups and cutlery. Our Hefty branded products include dishes and party cups. Hefty branded party cups are the #1 party cup in America measured by market share. Our branded products use our Hefty brand to represent both quality and great price, and we bring this same quality and value promise to all of our store brands as well. We sell across a broad range of materials and price points in all retail channels, allowing our consumers to select the product that best suits their price, function and aesthetic needs. These materials include sustainable solutions, such as Hefty ECOSAVE and Hefty Compostable Printed Paper Plates. Presto Products: Through our Presto Products segment, we primarily sell store brand products in four main categories: food storage bags, trash bags, reusable storage containers and plastic wrap. Presto Products is a market leader in food storage bags and differentiates itself by providing access to category management, consumer insights, marketing, merchandising and R&D resources. Our Presto Products segment also includes our specialty business, which serves other consumer products companies by providing Fresh Lock and Slide Rite resealable closure systems. 28 Table of Contents Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations We believe that our performance and future success depend on a number of factors that present significant opportunities for us but also pose risks and challenges, including those discussed below and in the section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K titled Risk Factors. Consumer Demand for our Products Our business is largely impacted by the demands of our customers, and our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences. Our products are household staples with a presence in 95% of households across the United States. We also expect that consumers desire for convenience will continue to sustain demand for our products. Todays consumers are focused on convenience, which extends into household products that improve ease of use and provide time savings, and they are willing to pay a higher price for innovative features and functionality. While advanced features are already prevalent in many of our products, we intend to continue investing in product development to accommodate the convenience oriented lifestyles of todays consumers. In addition, customers sensitivity to price points contributes to fluctuations in demand in portions of our business. Branded products and store brand products accounted for 62% and 38% of our revenue, excluding business to business revenue, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2022. We intend to continue investing in both our branded and store brand products to grow the entire product category. Our scale across household aisles and ability to offer both branded and store brand products enable us to grow the overall category. Through our category captain level advisor roles with our retail partners, we offer marketing and consumer shopping strategies, both in store and online, which expand usage occasions and stimulate consumption. Costs for Raw Material, Energy, Labor and Freight Our business is impacted by fluctuations in the prices of the raw materials, energy and freight costs incurred in manufacturing and distributing our products as well as fluctuations in labor and logistics costs related thereto. The primary raw materials used to manufacture our products are plastic resins and aluminum, and we also use commodity chemicals and energy. We are exposed to commodity and other price risk principally from the purchase of resin, aluminum, natural gas, electricity, carton board and diesel. We distribute our products and receive raw materials primarily by rail and truck, which exposes us to fluctuations in labor, freight and handling costs caused by reduced rail and trucking capacity. Sales contracts for our products typically do not contain pass through mechanisms for raw material, energy, labor and freight cost changes, but we adjust prices, where possible, in response to such price fluctuations. Resin prices have historically fluctuated with changes in the prices of crude oil and natural gas, as well as changes in refining capacity and the demand for other petroleum based products. Aluminum prices have also historically fluctuated, as aluminum is a cyclical commodity with prices subject to global market factors. Raw material costs have also been impacted by governmental actions, such as tariffs and trade sanctions. Purchases of most of our raw materials are based on negotiated rates with suppliers, which are linked to published indices. Typically, we do not enter into long term purchase contracts that provide for fixed quantities or prices for our principal raw materials. We use various strategies to manage our cost exposures on certain raw material purchases, including managing these costs through supplier negotiations and entering into contracts of varying durations, and we use naturally established forecast cycles to influence the timing of purchases of raw materials. Furthermore, since we distribute our products and receive raw materials primarily by rail and truck, reduced availability of rail or trucking capacity and fluctuations in labor, freight and handling costs have caused us to incur increased expenses in certain periods. Where possible, we also adjust the prices of our products in response to fluctuations in production and distribution costs. Our operating results are also impacted by energy related cost movements, including those impacting both our manufacturing operations and transportation and utility costs. Competitive Environment We operate in a marketplace influenced by large retailers with strong negotiating power over their suppliers. Current trends among these large retailers include increased demand for innovative new products from suppliers, requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and to deliver products within shorter lead times. We also face the threat of competition from new entrants to our markets as well as from existing competitors, including those overseas who may have lower production costs. In addition, the timing and amount in which our competitors invest in advertising and promotional spending may vary from quarter to quarter and impact our sales volumes and financial results. See Business Competition for more detail on our competitors. 29 Table of Contents Seasonality Portions of our business historically have been moderately seasonal. Overall, our strongest sales are in our fourth quarter and our weakest sales are in our first quarter. This is driven by higher levels of sales of cooking products around major U.S. holidays in our fourth quarter, primarily due to the holiday use of Reynolds Wrap, Reynolds Oven Bags, Reynolds Parchment Paper and disposable aluminum pans. Our tableware products generally have higher sales in the second quarter of the year, primarily due to outdoor summertime use of disposable plates, cups and bowls. Sustainability Interest in environmental sustainability has increased over the past decade, and it has played, and we expect it will continue to play, an increasing role in consumer purchasing decisions. For instance, there have been recent concerns about the environmental impact of single use disposable products and products made from plastic, particularly polystyrene foam, affecting our products, especially our Hefty Tableware segment. While there is a focus on environmentally friendly products, survey results indicate that in most of our product categories, consumers continue to rank performance related purchase criteria, such as durability and ease of use, followed by price, as top considerations, rather than sustainability. As our consumers may shift towards purchasing more sustainable products, we have focused much of our innovation efforts around sustainability. We offer a broad line of products made with recycled, renewable, recyclable and compostable materials. We intend to continue sustainability innovation in our efforts to be at the leading edge of recyclability, renewability and compostability in order to offer our customers environmentally sustainable choices. Overview Total net revenues increased 7% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The revenue increase was primarily due to higher pricing as a result of pricing actions taken in response to increased material, manufacturing and logistics costs, partially offset by lower volume. We experienced significant increases in material costs as well as increases in manufacturing, logistics and advertising costs in 2022. We have aggressively implemented price increases in an effort to recover these costs and maintain our profitability. Our 2022 earnings decline was primarily attributable to lower volume and higher advertising costs, partially offset by the timing of pricing actions to recover increased material, manufacturing and logistics costs. Non GAAP Measures In this Annual Report on Form 10 K we use the non GAAP financial measures Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings Per Share ("Adjusted EPS"), which are measures adjusted for the impact of specified items and are not in accordance with GAAP. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income calculated in accordance with GAAP, plus the sum of income tax expense, net interest expense, depreciation and amortization and further adjusted to exclude IPO and separation related costs, as well as other non recurring costs. We define Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS as Net Income and Earnings Per Share ("EPS") calculated in accordance with GAAP, plus IPO and separation related costs, other non recurring costs and the impact of a tax legislation change under the CARES Act enacted on March 27, 2020. We present Adjusted EBITDA because it is a key measure used by our management team to evaluate our operating performance, generate future operating plans and make strategic decisions. In addition, our chief operating decision maker uses Adjusted EBITDA of each reportable segment to evaluate the operating performance of such segments. We use Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS as supplemental measures to evaluate our business performance in a way that also considers our ability to generate profit without the impact of certain items. Accordingly, we believe presenting these measures provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management team and board of directors. Non GAAP information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, our non GAAP financial measures may not be the same as or comparable to similar non GAAP financial measures presented by other companies. 30 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of our net income, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to Adjusted EBITDA: For the Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 (in millions) Net income GAAP $ 258 $ 324 $ 363 Income tax expense 80 106 153 Interest expense, net 76 48 70 Depreciation and amortization 117 109 99 IPO and separation related costs 12 14 31 Other 3 1 Adjusted EBITDA (Non GAAP) $ 546 $ 601 $ 717 (1) Reflects costs during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 related to our separation to operate as a stand alone public company as well as costs related to the IPO process. The following table presents a reconciliation of our net income and diluted EPS, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, to Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS: Year Ended December 31, 2022 Year Ended December 31, 2021 Year Ended December 31, 2020 (in millions, except for per share data) Net Income Diluted Shares Diluted EPS Net Income Diluted Shares Diluted EPS Net Income Diluted Shares Diluted EPS As Reported GAAP $ 258 210 $ 1.23 $ 324 210 $ 1.54 $ 363 205 $ 1.77 Assume full period impact of IPO shares 5 Total 258 210 1.23 324 210 1.54 363 210 1.73 Adjustments: IPO and separation related costs 9 210 0.04 11 210 0.05 23 210 0.11 Impact of tax legislation change from the CARES Act 27 210 0.13 Other 2 210 0.01 Adjusted (Non GAAP) $ 269 210 $ 1.28 $ 335 210 $ 1.59 $ 413 210 $ 1.97 (1) Represents incremental shares required to adjust the weighted average shares outstanding for the period to the actual shares outstanding as of December 31, 2020. We utilize the shares outstanding at period end as if they had been outstanding for the full period rather than weighted average shares outstanding over the course of the period as it is a more meaningful calculation that provides consistency in comparability due to the additional shares issued as a result of the IPO in the period. (2) Amounts are after tax, calculated using a tax rate of 23.6% for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 24.6% for each of the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, which is our effective tax rate for the periods presented excluding the 2020 one time discrete expense associated with the legislation change from the CARES Act. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Detailed comparisons of revenue and results are presented in the discussions of the operating segments, which follow our consolidated results discussion. Discussions of the year ended December 31, 2021 items and comparisons between the year ended December 31, 2021 and the year ended December 31, 2020 can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10 K filed on February 9, 2022. Aggregation of Segment Revenue and Adjusted EBITDA (in millions) Reynolds Cooking & Baking Hefty Waste & Storage Hefty Tableware Presto Products Unallocated Total Reynolds Consumer Products Net revenues 2022 $ 1,287 $ 946 $ 1,000 $ 604 $ (20) $ 3,817 2021 1,314 884 815 564 (21) 3,556 2020 1,159 818 763 533 (10) 3,263 Adjusted EBITDA 2022 $ 142 $ 207 $ 134 $ 96 $ (33) $ 546 2021 255 173 137 69 (33) 601 2020 254 236 170 98 (41) 717 (1) Adjusted EBITDA is a non GAAP measure. See Non GAAP Measures for details, including a reconciliation between net income and Adjusted EBITDA. (2) The unallocated net revenues include elimination of intersegment revenues and other revenue adjustments. The unallocated Adjusted EBITDA represents the combination of corporate expenses which are not allocated to our segments and other unallocated revenue adjustments. Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2021 Total Reynolds Consumer Products For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions, except for %) 2022 % of Revenue 2021 % of Revenue Change % Change Net revenues $ 3,716 97 % $ 3,445 97 % $ 271 8 % Related party net revenues 101 3 % 111 3 % (10) (9) % Total net revenues 3,817 100 % 3,556 100 % 261 7 % Cost of sales (3,041) (80) % (2,745) (77) % (296) (11) % Gross profit 776 20 % 811 23 % (35) (4) % Selling, general and administrative expenses (340) (9) % (320) (9) % (20) (6) % Other expense, net (22) (1) % (13) % (9) (69) % Income from operations 414 11 % 478 13 % (64) (13) % Interest expense, net (76) (2) % (48) (1) % (28) (58) % Income before income taxes 338 9 % 430 12 % (92) (21) % Income tax expense (80) (2) % (106) (3) % 26 25 % Net income $ 258 7 % $ 324 9 % $ (66) (20) % Adjusted EBITDA $ 546 14 % $ 601 17 % $ (55) (9) % (1) Adjusted EBITDA is a non GAAP measure. See Non GAAP Measures for details, including a reconciliation between net income and Adjusted EBITDA. 32 Table of Contents Components of Change in Net Revenues for the Year Ended December 31, 2022 vs. the Year Ended December 31, 2021 Price Volume/Mix Total Reynolds Cooking & Baking 12 % (14) % (2) % Hefty Waste & Storage 10 % (3) % 7 % Hefty Tableware 19 % 4 % 23 % Presto Products 11 % (4) % 7 % Total RCP 13 % (6) % 7 % Total Net Revenues . Total net revenues increased by $261 million, or 7%, to $3,817 million. The increase was primarily driven by higher pricing as a result of pricing actions taken in response to increased material, manufacturing and logistics costs, partially offset by lower volume. Cost of Sales . Cost of sales increased by $296 million, or 11%, to $3,041 million. The increase was driven by an increase of $333 million in material costs, as well as increased manufacturing and logistics costs, partially offset by lower volume. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $20 million, or 6%, to $340 million primarily due to higher advertising expense. Other Expense, Net. Other expense, net increased by $9 million, or 69%, to $22 million. The increase was primarily attributable to changes in our deferred compensation plan assets. Interest Expense , Net . Interest expense, net increased by $28 million, or 58%, to $76 million. The increase was primarily due to higher interest rates. Income Tax Expense. We recognized income tax expense of $80 million on income before income taxes of $338 million (an effective tax rate of 23.6%) for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to income tax expense of $106 million on income before income taxes of $430 million (an effective tax rate of 24.6%) for the year ended December 31, 2021. Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA decreased by $55 million, or 9%, to $546 million. The decrease in Adjusted EBITDA was primarily due to lower volume and higher advertising costs, partially offset by the timing of pricing actions to recover increased material, manufacturing and logistics costs. Segment Information Reynolds Cooking & Baking For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions, except for %) 2022 2021 Change % change Total segment net revenues $ 1,287 $ 1,314 $ (27) (2) % Segment Adjusted EBITDA 142 255 (113) (44) % Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin 11 % 19 % Total Segment Net Revenues . Reynolds Cooking & Baking total segment net revenues decreased by $27 million, or 2%, to $1,287 million. The decrease in net revenues was primarily driven by lower household foil volumes, as well as timing of retailer inventory replenishment, partially offset by higher pricing as a result of pricing actions taken in response to increased material, manufacturing and logistics costs. Adjusted EBITDA . Reynolds Cooking & Baking Adjusted EBITDA decreased by $113 million, or 44%, to $142 million. The decrease in Adjusted EBITDA was primarily driven by lower volume and the timing of pricing actions lagging higher material and manufacturing costs. The increase in manufacturing costs was primarily driven by equipment reliability and related inefficiencies. 33 Table of Contents Hefty Waste & Storage For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions, except for %) 2022 2021 Change % change Total segment net revenues $ 946 $ 884 $ 62 7 % Segment Adjusted EBITDA 207 173 34 20 % Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin 22 % 20 % Total Segment Net Revenues . Hefty Waste & Storage total segment net revenues increased by $62 million, or 7%, to $946 million. The increase in net revenues was primarily driven by higher pricing due to pricing actions taken in response to increased material, manufacturing and logistics costs, partially offset by lower volume. Adjusted EBITDA. Hefty Waste & Storage Adjusted EBITDA increased by $34 million, or 20%, to $207 million. The increase in Adjusted EBITDA was primarily driven by the timing of pricing actions to recover higher material, manufacturing and logistics costs and cost savings initiatives, partially offset by higher advertising costs. Hefty Tableware For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions, except for %) 2022 2021 Change % change Total segment net revenues $ 1,000 $ 815 $ 185 23 % Segment Adjusted EBITDA 134 137 (3) (2) % Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin 13 % 17 % Total Segment Net Revenues. Hefty Tableware total segment net revenues increased by $185 million, or 23%, to $1,000 million. The increase in net revenues was primarily driven by higher pricing due to pricing actions taken in response to increased material, manufacturing and logistics costs, as well as higher volume. Adjusted EBITDA. Hefty Tableware Adjusted EBITDA decreased by $3 million, or 2%, to $134 million. The decrease in Adjusted EBITDA was primarily driven by pricing actions lagging material, manufacturing and logistics costs and higher advertising costs, partially offset by higher volume. Presto Products For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions, except for %) 2022 2021 Change % change Total segment net revenues $ 604 $ 564 $ 40 7 % Segment Adjusted EBITDA 96 69 27 39 % Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin 16 % 12 % Total Segment Net Revenues. Presto Products total segment net revenues increased by $40 million, or 7%, to $604 million. The increase in net revenues was primarily driven by pricing actions taken in response to increased material, manufacturing and logistics costs, partially offset by lower volume. Adjusted EBITDA . Presto Products Adjusted EBITDA increased by $27 million, or 39%, to $96 million. The increase in Adjusted EBITDA was primarily driven by the timing of price increases to recover higher material, manufacturing and logistics costs and cost savings initiatives. Seasonality Portions of our business historically have been moderately seasonal. Overall, our strongest sales are in our fourth quarter and our weakest sales are in our first quarter. This is driven by higher levels of sales of cooking products around major U.S. holidays in our fourth quarter, primarily due to the holiday use of Reynolds Wrap, Reynolds Oven Bags, Reynolds Parchment Paper and disposable aluminum pans. Our tableware products generally have higher sales in the second quarter of the year, primarily due to outdoor summertime use of disposable plates, cups and bowls. 34 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are existing cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operating activities, including proceeds from factored receivables, and available borrowings under the Revolving Facility. The following table discloses our cash flows for the years presented: For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 219 $ 310 Net cash used in investing activities (128) (141) Net cash used in financing activities (217) (317) Decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (126) $ (148) Cash provided by operating activities Net cash from operating activities decreased by $91 million, or 29%, to $219 million. The decrease was primarily driven by lower net income and higher investment in net working capital, partially offset by lower net cash outlays related to employee costs in the current year period compared to the prior year period. Cash used in investing activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $13 million, or 9%, to $128 million. The decrease was driven primarily by a purchase of a previously leased manufacturing facility in the prior year period that did not repeat in the current year period. Cash used in financing activities Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $100 million, or 32%, to $217. The decrease in cash flows from financing activities was attributable to a voluntary payment of debt made in the prior year period that did not repeat in the current year period. External Debt Facilities On February 4, 2020, in conjunction with our Corporate Reorganization and IPO, we entered into the External Debt Facilities which consist of a $2,475 million Term Loan Facility and a Revolving Facility that provides for additional borrowing capacity of up to $250 million, reduced by amounts used for letters of credit. As of December 31, 2022, the outstanding balance under the Term Loan Facility was $2,107 million. As of December 31, 2022, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Facility, and we had $7 million of letters of credit outstanding, which reduces the borrowing capacity under the Revolving Facility. The borrower under the External Debt Facilities is Reynolds Consumer Products LLC (the Borrower). The Revolving Facility includes a sub facility for letters of credit. In addition, the External Debt Facilities provide that the Borrower has the right at any time, subject to customary conditions, to request incremental term loans or incremental revolving credit commitments in amounts and on terms set forth therein. The lenders under the External Debt Facilities are not under any obligation to provide any such incremental loans or commitments, and any such addition of or increase in loans is subject to certain customary conditions precedent and other provisions. Interest rate and fees Borrowings under the External Debt Facilities bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our option, either a base rate plus an applicable margin of 0.75% or a LIBO rate plus an applicable margin of 1.75%. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we entered into a series of interest rate swaps which fixed the LIBO rate to an annual rate of 0.18% to 0.47% (for an annual effective interest rate of 1.93% to 2.22%, including margin) for an aggregate notional amount of $1,650 million, of which $150 million notional value was still in effect as of December 31, 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we entered into additional interest rate swaps which fixed the LIBO rate to an annual rate of 2.70% to 3.44% (for an annual effective interest rate of 4.45% to 5.19%, including margin) for an aggregate notional amount of $1,000 million. As of December 31, 2022, we had interest rate swaps of an aggregate notional amount of $1,150 million. These interest rate swaps hedge a portion of the interest rate exposure resulting from our Term Loan Facility for periods ranging from three to four years. 35 Table of Contents Prepayments The Term Loan Facility contains customary mandatory prepayments, including with respect to excess cash flow, asset sale proceeds and proceeds from certain incurrences of indebtedness. The Borrower may voluntarily repay outstanding loans under the Term Loan Facility at any time without premium or penalty, other than customary breakage costs. Amortization and maturity The Term Loan Facility matures in February 2027. The Term Loan Facility amortizes in equal quarterly installments of $6 million, which commenced in June 2020, with the balance payable on maturity. The Revolving Facility matures in February 2025. Guarantee and security All obligations under the External Debt Facilities and certain hedge agreements and cash management arrangements provided by any lender party to the External Debt Facilities or any of its affiliates and certain other persons are unconditionally guaranteed by Reynolds Consumer Products Inc. (RCPI), the Borrower (with respect to hedge agreements and cash management arrangements not entered into by the Borrower) and certain of RCPIs existing and subsequently acquired or organized direct or indirect material wholly owned U.S. restricted subsidiaries, with customary exceptions including, among other things, where providing such guarantees is not permitted by law, regulation or contract or would result in material adverse tax consequences. All obligations under the External Debt Facilities and certain hedge agreements and cash management arrangements provided by any lender party to the External Debt Facilities or any of its affiliates and certain other persons, and the guarantees of such obligations, are secured, subject to permitted liens and other exceptions, by: (i) a perfected first priority pledge of all the equity interests of each wholly owned material restricted subsidiary of RCPI, the Borrower or a subsidiary guarantor, including the equity interests of the Borrower (limited to 65% of voting stock in the case of first tier non U.S. subsidiaries of RCPI, the Borrower or any subsidiary guarantor) and (ii) perfected first priority security interests in substantially all tangible and intangible personal property of RCPI, the Borrower and the subsidiary guarantors (subject to certain other exclusions). Certain covenants and events of default The External Debt Facilities contain a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our ability and the ability of the restricted subsidiaries of RCPI to: incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; create or incur liens; engage in mergers or consolidations; sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets; pay dividends and distributions or repurchase capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain indebtedness; make investments, loans and advances; enter into certain transactions with affiliates; enter into agreements which limit the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to incur restrictions on their ability to make distributions; and enter into amendments to certain indebtedness in a manner materially adverse to the lenders. The External Debt Facilities contain a springing financial covenant requiring compliance with a ratio of first lien net indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA, applicable solely to the Revolving Facility. The financial covenant is tested on the last day of any fiscal quarter only if the aggregate principal amount of borrowings under the Revolving Facility and drawn but unreimbursed letters of credit exceed 35% of the total amount of commitments under the Revolving Facility on such day. If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the External Debt Facilities are entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due under the External Debt Facilities and all actions permitted to be taken by secured creditors. We are currently in compliance with the covenants contained in our External Debt Facilities. 36 Table of Contents Accounts Receivable Factoring During the year ended December 31, 2022, we entered into an accounts receivable factoring agreement with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. to sell certain accounts receivable up to $190 million. The outstanding balance owed under the factoring arrangement as of December 31, 2022 was $15 million. Transactions under this agreement are accounted for as sales of accounts receivable, and the receivables sold are removed from the consolidated balance sheet at the time of the sales transaction. We classify proceeds received from the sales of accounts receivable as an operating cash flow in the consolidated statement of cash flows. We record the discount as other expense, net in the consolidated statement of income. Dividends During the year ended December 31, 2022, cash dividends totaling $0.92 per share were declared and paid. On January 26, 2023, a quarterly cash dividend of $0.23 per share was declared and is to be paid on February 28, 2023. We expect to continue paying cash dividends on a quarterly basis; however, future dividends are at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, contractual limitations (including under the External Debt Facilities) and other factors. **** We believe that our projected cash position, cash flows from operations, including proceeds from factored receivables, and available borrowings under the Revolving Facility are sufficient to meet debt service, capital expenditures and working capital needs for the foreseeable future. However, we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available under our borrowing agreements in amounts sufficient to pay indebtedness or fund other liquidity needs. Actual results of operations will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control as further discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our material contractual obligations as of December 31, 2022: (in millions) Total Less than one year One to three years Three to five years Greater than five years Long term debt $ 2,631 $ 155 $ 306 $ 2,170 $ Operating lease liabilities 76 17 32 18 9 Finance lease liabilities 16 2 2 2 10 Unconditional capital expenditure obligations 50 50 Postretirement benefit plan obligations 34 2 5 6 21 Total contractual obligations $ 2,807 $ 226 $ 345 $ 2,196 $ 40 (1) Total obligations for long term debt consist of the principal amounts and interest obligations. The interest rate on the floating rate debt balances has been assumed to be the same as the rate in effect as of December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2022, our liabilities for uncertain tax positions and defined benefit pension obligations totaled $10 million. The ultimate timing of these liabilities cannot be determined; therefore, we have excluded these amounts from the contractual obligations table above. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no material off balance sheet obligations. 37 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. Critical accounting estimates are those that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Specific areas requiring the application of managements estimates and judgments include, among others, assumptions pertaining to valuation assumptions of goodwill and intangible assets, useful lives of long lived assets and sales incentives. Accordingly, a different financial presentation could result depending on the judgments, estimates or assumptions that are used. A summary of our significant accounting policies and use of estimates is contained in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We believe that the accounting estimates and assumptions described below involve significant subjectivity and judgment, and changes to such estimates or assumptions could have a material impact on our financial condition or operating results. Therefore, we consider an understanding of the variability and judgment required in making these estimates and assumptions to be critical in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. Revenue Recognition Sales Incentives We routinely commit to one time or ongoing trade promotion programs with our customers. Programs include discounts, allowances, shelf price reductions, end of aisle or in store displays of our products and graphics and other trade promotion activities conducted by the customer, such as coupons. Collectively, we refer to these as sales incentives or trade promotions. Costs related to these programs are recorded as a reduction to revenue. Our trade promotion accruals are primarily based on estimated volume and incorporate historical sales and spending trends by customer and category. The determination of these estimated accruals requires judgment and may change in the future as a result of changes in customer promotion participation, particularly for new programs and for programs related to the introduction of new products. Final determination of the total cost of a promotion is dependent upon customers providing information about proof of performance and other information related to the promotional event. This process of analyzing and settling trade promotion programs with customers could impact our results of operations and trade promotion accruals depending on how actual results of the programs compare to original estimates. Sales incentives represented 4%, 4%, and 5% of total net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, we had accruals of $38 million and $40 million, respectively, reflected on our consolidated balance sheets in Accrued and other current liabilities related to sales incentive programs. Goodwill, Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets and Long Lived Assets We test our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually in the fiscal fourth quarter unless there are indications during a different interim period that these assets may have become impaired. No impairments were identified as a result of our impairment review performed annually during the fourth quarter of fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020. Goodwill Our reporting units for goodwill impairment testing purposes are Reynolds Cooking & Baking, Hefty Waste & Storage, Hefty Tableware and Presto Products. No instances of impairment were identified during the fiscal year 2022 annual impairment review. All of our reporting units had fair values that significantly exceeded recorded carrying values. However, future changes in the judgments, assumptions and estimates that are used in the impairment testing for goodwill as described below could result in significantly different estimates of the fair values. In our evaluation of goodwill impairment, we have the option to first assess qualitative factors such as the maturity and stability of the reporting unit, the magnitude of the excess fair value over carrying value from the prior years impairment testing, other reporting unit operating results as well as new events and circumstances impacting the operations at the reporting unit level. If the result of a qualitative test indicates a potential for impairment, or if we voluntarily elect, a quantitative test is performed, wherein we compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. In all instances where a quantitative test was performed, the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value of the reporting unit and none of our reporting units were at a risk of failing the quantitative test. If the estimated fair value of any reporting unit had been less than its carrying value, an impairment charge would have been recorded for the amount by which the reporting units carrying amount exceeds its fair value. To determine the fair value of a reporting unit as part of our quantitative test, we use a capitalization of earnings method under the income approach. Under this approach, we estimate the forecasted Adjusted EBITDA of each reporting unit and capitalize this amount using a multiple. The Adjusted EBITDA amounts are consistent with those we use in our internal planning, which gives consideration to actual business trends experienced and the long term business strategy. The selection of a capitalization multiple incorporates consideration of comparable entity trading multiples within the same industry and recent sale and purchase transactions. Changes in such estimates or the application of alternative assumptions could produce different results. 38 Table of Contents Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets Our indefinite lived intangible assets consist of certain trade names. We test indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. We have the option to first assess qualitative factors such as the maturity of the trade name, the magnitude of the excess fair value over carrying value from the prior years impairment testing, as well as new events and circumstances impacting the trade name. If the result of a qualitative test indicates a potential for impairment, or if we voluntarily elect, a quantitative test is performed. If the carrying amount of such asset exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference between the carrying amount and the estimated fair value. When a quantitative test is performed we use a relief from royalty computation under the income approach to estimate the fair value of our trade names. This approach requires significant judgments in determining (i) the estimated future branded revenue from the use of the asset; (ii) the relevant royalty rate to be applied to these estimated future cash flows; and (iii) the appropriate discount rates applied to those cash flows to determine fair value. Changes in such estimates or the use of alternative assumptions could produce different results. No instances of impairment were identified during the fiscal year 2022 annual impairment review. Each of our indefinite lived intangible assets had fair values that significantly exceeded recorded carrying values. Long Lived Assets Long lived assets, including finite lived intangible assets, are reviewed for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying amount of an asset (or asset group) may not be recoverable. Our impairment review requires significant management judgment, including estimating the future success of product lines, future sales volumes, revenue and expense growth rates, alternative uses for the assets and estimated proceeds from the disposal of the assets. We review business plans for possible impairment indicators. Impairment occurs when the carrying amount of the asset (or asset group) exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows. When impairment is indicated, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference between the assets carrying value and its estimated fair value. Depending on the asset, estimated fair value may be determined either by use of a discounted cash flow model or by reference to estimated selling values of assets in similar condition. The use of different assumptions would increase or decrease the estimated fair value of assets and would increase or decrease any impairment measurement. Recent Accounting Pronouncements New accounting guidance that we have recently adopted, as well as accounting guidance that has been recently issued but not yet adopted by us, is included in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK In the normal course of business, we are subject to risks from adverse fluctuations in interest rates and commodity prices. Our objective in managing our exposure to market risk is to limit the impact on earnings and cash flow. Interest Rate Risk We had significant variable rate debt commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2022, which accrue interest at the LIBO rate plus an applicable margin of 1.75%. These on balance sheet financial instruments expose us to interest rate risk. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we entered into a series of interest rate swaps which fixed the LIBO rate to an annual rate of 0.18% to 0.47% (for an annual effective interest rate of 1.93% to 2.22%, including margin) for an aggregate notional amount of $1,650 million, of which $150 million notional value was still in effect as of December 31, 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we entered into additional interest rate swaps which fixed the LIBO rate to an annual rate of 2.70% to 3.44% (for an annual effective interest rate of 4.45% to 5.19%, including margin) for an aggregate notional amount of $1,000 million. As of December 31, 2022, we had interest rate swaps of an aggregate notional amount of $1,150 million. These interest rate swaps hedge a portion of the interest rate exposure resulting from our Term Loan Facility for periods ranging from three to four years. We classify these instruments as cash flow hedges. Our average variable rate for the remaining notional amount of $1,150 million is a one month LIBO rate plus an applicable margin of 1.75%. The fair value of our interest rate swaps included on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2022 is $48 million. Refer to Note 8 Financial Instruments for further detail. (in millions) Pay fixed / receive variable notional Average pay rate 2023 2024 2025 150 2.2 % 2026 1,000 4.8 % Total $ 1,150 (1) Includes 1.75% applicable margin on the one month LIBO rate. Based on the unhedged outstanding borrowings under the Term Loan Facility as of December 31, 2022, a 100 basis point increase (decrease) in the interest rates under the Term Loan Facility would result in a $10 million increase (decrease) in interest expense, per annum, on our borrowings. Commodity Risk We are exposed to commodity and other price risk principally from the purchase of resin, aluminum, natural gas, electricity, carton board and diesel. In some instances, we use contracts of varying durations along with strategic pricing mechanisms to manage volatility for a portion of our commodity costs, but derivative instruments are not currently being used to manage these risks. d 40 Table of Contents 