Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10 K. This annual report reflects the historical results of operations and financial position of StepStone Group LP, our predecessor for accounting purposes, prior to the Reorganization and IPO. In this annual report, references to we, us, our, StepStone and similar terms refer to SSG and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the Partnership, following the Reorganization and IPO and to the Partnership and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Reorganization and IPO. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this annual report to fiscal 2022, fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020 are to our fiscal years ended March 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Business Overview We are a global private markets investment firm focused on providing customized investment solutions and advisory, data and administrative services to our clients. Our clients include some of the worlds largest public and private defined benefit and defined contribution pension funds, sovereign wealth funds and insurance companies, as well as prominent endowments, foundations, family offices and private wealth clients, which include high net worth and mass affluent individuals. We partner with our clients to develop and build private markets portfolios designed to meet their specific objectives across the private equity, infrastructure, private debt and real estate asset classes. These portfolios utilize several types of synergistic investment strategies with third party fund managers, including commitments to funds (primaries), acquiring stakes in existing funds on the secondary market (secondaries) and investing directly into companies (co investments). As of March 31, 2022, we oversaw approximately $570 billion of private markets allocations, including $134 billion of assets under management (AUM) and $436 billion of assets under advisement (AUA). We are a global firm and believe that our multi asset class expertise, local knowledge, business relationships, proprietary data and technology, and presence are all critical to securing a competitive edge in the private markets. We deploy a local staffing model, operating from 23 cities across 14 countries on five continents. Our offices are staffed by investment professionals who bring valuable regional insights and language proficiency to enhance existing client relationships and build new client relationships. Since our inception in 2007, we have invested heavily in our platforms to drive growth and expand our investment solutions capabilities and service offerings, including through opportunistic transactions that have helped accelerate the growth of our team and capabilities. As of March 31, 2022, we had over 790 total employees, including approximately 280 investment professionals and more than 500 employees across our operating team and implementation teams dedicated to sourcing, executing, analyzing and monitoring private markets opportunities. We have a flexible business model whereby many of our clients engage us for solutions across multiple asset classes and investment strategies. Our solutions are typically offered in the following commercial structures: Separately managed accounts (SMAs). Owned by one client and managed according to their specific preferences, SMAs integrate a combination of primaries, secondaries and co investments across one or more asset classes. SMAs are meant to address clients specific portfolio objectives with respect to return, risk tolerance, diversification and liquidity. SMAs, including directly managed assets, comprised $79 billion of our AUM as of March 31, 2022. Focused commingled funds. Owned by multiple clients, our focused commingled funds deploy capital in specific asset classes with defined investment strategies. Focused commingled funds comprised $44 billion of our AUM as of March 31, 2022. 74 Table of Contents Advisory, data and administrative services. These services include one or more of the following for our clients: (i) recurring support of portfolio construction and design; (ii) discrete or project based due diligence, advice and investment recommendations; (iii) detailed review of existing private markets investments, including portfolio level repositioning recommendations where appropriate; (iv) consulting on investment pacing, policies, strategic plans, and asset allocation to investment boards and committees; (v) licensed access to our proprietary data and technology platforms, including SPI and our other proprietary tools; and (vi) administrative services to unaffiliated investment advisors. Advisory relationships comprised $436 billion of our AUA and $12 billion of our AUM as of March 31, 2022. Portfolio analytics and reporting. We provide clients with tailored reporting packages, including customized performance benchmarks as well as associated compliance, administrative and tax capabilities. Mandates for portfolio analytics and reporting services typically include licensed access to our proprietary performance monitoring software, Omni. Omni tracked detailed information on over $805 billion of client commitments as of March 31, 2022, inclusive of our combined AUM/AUA, previously exited investments and investments of former clients. We generate revenues from management and advisory fees and performance fees earned pursuant to contractual arrangements with our funds and our clients. We also invest our own capital in the StepStone Funds we manage to align our interests with those of our clients. Through these investments, we earn a pro rata share of the results of such funds and may also be entitled to an allocation of performance based fees from the limited partners in the StepStone Funds, commonly referred to as carried interest. Trends Affecting Our Business Our business is affected by a variety of factors, including conditions in the financial markets and economic and political conditions. Changes in global economic conditions and regulatory or other governmental policies or actions can materially affect the values of the StepStone Funds holdings and the ability to source attractive investments and completely utilize the capital that we have raised. However, we believe our disciplined investment philosophy across our diversified investment strategies has historically contributed to the stability of our performance throughout market cycles. In addition to these macroeconomic trends and market factors, we believe our future performance will be influenced by the following factors: The extent to which clients favor private markets investments. Our ability to attract new capital is partially dependent on clients views of private markets relative to traditional asset classes. We believe our fundraising efforts will continue to be subject to certain fundamental asset management trends, including (1) the increasing importance and market share of private markets investment strategies to clients of all types as clients focus on lower correlated and absolute levels of return, (2) the increasing demand for private markets investments from private wealth clients, (3) shifting asset allocation policies of institutional clients and (4) increasing barriers to entry and growth for potential competitors. Our ability to generate strong, stable returns. Our ability to raise and retain capital is partially dependent on the investment returns we are able to generate for our clients and drives growth in our fee earning AUM (FEAUM) and management fees. Although our FEAUM and management fees have grown significantly since our inception, adverse market conditions or an outflow of capital in the private markets management industry in general could affect our future growth rate. In addition, market dislocations, contractions or volatility could put pressure on our returns in the future which could in turn affect our fundraising abilities. 75 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain our data advantage relative to competitors. Our proprietary data and technology platforms, analytical tools and deep industry knowledge allow us to provide our clients with customized investment solutions, including asset management services and tailored reporting packages, such as customized performance benchmarks as well as compliance, administration and tax capabilities. Our ability to maintain our data advantage is dependent on a number of factors, including our continued access to a broad set of private market information and our ability to grow our relationships with fund managers and clients of all types. Our ability to source investments with attractive risk adjusted returns. The continued growth in our revenues is dependent on our ability to identify attractive investments and deploy the capital that we have raised. However, the capital deployed in any one quarter may vary significantly from period to period due to the availability of attractive opportunities and the long term nature of our investment strategies. Our ability to identify attractive investments is dependent on a number of factors, including the general macroeconomic environment, valuation, transaction size, and the liquidity of an investment opportunity. A significant decrease in the quality or quantity of potential opportunities could significantly and adversely affect our ability to source investments with attractive risk adjusted returns. Increased competition and clients desire to work with fewer managers. There has been an increasing desire on the part of larger institutional investors to build deeper relationships with fewer private markets managers. At times, this has led to certain funds being oversubscribed due to the increasing flow of capital. Our ability to invest and maintain our relationships with high performing fund managers across private markets asset classes is critical to our clients success and our ability to maintain our competitive position and grow our revenue. Current Events In 2021, economic conditions improved from the prior year since the onset of the COVID 19 pandemic as vaccination rates increased and lockdowns eased. Most financial markets experienced strong returns during 2021, despite the ongoing pandemic, which caused severe disruptions in the global financial markets and economies. Efforts to reopen the global economy in 2021 contributed to robust economic activity that supported the global recovery. However, the emergence of new variants has and may continue to contribute to setbacks or slowing of recovery efforts. Leading into 2022, factors including inflation, higher interest rates, the ongoing Russia Ukraine conflict and the impact of COVID 19 variants on economic growth led to increased volatility in the financial markets. As expected, the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its short term lending rate by 25 basis points in March 2022 and an additional 50 basis points in May 2022, with further increases expected through the rest of the year. We are continuing to closely monitor developments related to COVID 19, inflation, rising interest rates and the Russia Ukraine conflict, and to assess the impact on financial markets and on our business. Our future results may be adversely affected by slowdowns in fundraising activity and the pace of capital deployment, which could result in delayed or decreased management fees. Further, if fund managers are unable or less able to profitably exit existing investments, such conditions could result in delayed or decreased performance fee revenues. It is currently not possible to predict the ultimate effects of these events on the financial markets, overall economy and our consolidated financial statements. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our IndustryThe COVID 19 pandemic has severely disrupted the global financial markets and business climate and may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 76 Table of Contents Recent Transactions Reorganization and Initial Public Offering On September 18, 2020, we completed an IPO pursuant to which we issued 20,125,000 shares of Class A common stock at a price of $18.00 per share. We received net proceeds from the offering of $337.8 million, net of underwriting discounts of $24.5 million and before offering costs of $9.7 million that were incurred by the Partnership. We used approximately $209.8 million of the net proceeds from the offering to acquire 12,500,000 newly issued Class A units of the Partnership and approximately $128.0 million to purchase 7,625,000 Class B units from certain of the Partnerships existing unitholders, including certain members of senior management. In connection with the IPO, we completed certain transactions as part of the Reorganization to, among other things, provide for Class A common stock and Class B common stock; appoint SSG as the sole managing member of StepStone Group Holdings LLC, the General Partner; complete a series of merger transactions such that certain blocker entities in which certain pre IPO institutional investors held their interests in the Partnership merged with and into SSG, with SSG surviving, resulting in the pre IPO institutional investors acquiring 9,112,500 shares of newly issued Class A common stock of SSG; and classify the Partnerships interests acquired by SSG as Class A units and reclassify the Partnerships interests held by the continuing partners as Class B units. See Organizational Structure below. See note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report for more information about the Reorganization and IPO. Greenspring Acquisition On September 20, 2021, we completed the acquisition of 100% of Greenspring in exchange for (i) cash consideration of approximately $185 million, net of an agreed upon adjustment based upon Greensprings net working capital balance at the closing date, (ii) 12,686,756 shares of Class A common stock and (iii) 3,071,519 newly issued Class C units of the Partnership. The transaction agreement also included an earn out of up to $75 million that is payable in 2025 subject to the achievement of certain management fee revenue targets for calendar year 2024. The acquisition of Greenspring, a venture capital platform, is expected to expand our continued growth of our private markets capabilities across asset classes, geographies and sectors. The results of Greensprings operations have been included in the consolidated financial statements effective September 20, 2021. Revolving Credit Facility In September 2021, we entered into a credit agreement with various lenders (the Credit Agreement) in connection with the Greenspring acquisition. The Credit Agreement was arranged by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and provides for a $225.0 million multicurrency revolving credit facility (the Revolver) with a five year maturity. As of March 31, 2022, there was $62.9 million outstanding on the Revolver, net of debt issuance costs. Equity Transactions In March 2021, we conducted an underwritten public offering of 9,200,000 shares of Class A common stock, including 1,200,000 shares pursuant to the full exercise of the underwriters option to purchase additional shares, sold by selling stockholders at a public offering price of $29.50 per share. In connection with the offering, we issued 9,200,000 shares of Class A common stock to the selling stockholders in exchange for 9,200,000 Class B units. A corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock were automatically redeemed at par value and canceled in connection with such exchange and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling stockholders. 77 Table of Contents In June 2021, we issued 1,898,438 shares of Class A common stock to certain limited partners of the Partnership in exchange for 1,898,438 Class B units in accordance with the elective exchange notices submitted pursuant to an agreement with the Class B limited partners (the Class B Exchange Agreement) to allow for exchange of Class B units of the Partnership to shares of Class A common stock of the Company on a one for one basis, subject to certain restrictions. A corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock were automatically redeemed at par value and canceled in connection with such exchange and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. In September 2021, we issued 12,686,756 shares of Class A common stock and 3,071,519 Class C units of the Partnership as partial consideration for the Greenspring acquisition. In connection with the transaction, we amended the limited partnership agreement to create a new Class C limited partnership interest and admit the new limited partners that received Class C units as consideration for the Greenspring acquisition. The Class C limited partners of the Partnership became parties to the Exchanges Tax Receivable Agreement to allow for the exchange of Class C units to shares of Class A common stock of the Company on a one for one basis, subject to certain restrictions. In September 2021, we issued 2,087,281 shares of Class A common stock to certain limited partners of the Partnership in exchange for 2,087,281 Class B units in accordance with elective exchange notices submitted pursuant to the Class B Exchange Agreement. A corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock were automatically redeemed at par value and canceled in connection with such exchange and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. In November 2021, we conducted an underwritten public offering of 4,500,000 shares of Class A common stock sold by selling stockholders at a public offering price of $51.83 per share. In connection with the offering, we issued 3,958,204 shares of Class A common stock to certain selling stockholders in exchange for 3,958,204 Class B units. A corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock were automatically redeemed at par value and canceled in connection with such exchange and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. We also issued 142,695 shares of Class A common stock to certain selling stockholders in exchange for 142,695 Class C units and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling stockholders. In December 2021, we issued 935,235 shares of Class A common stock to certain limited partners of the Partnership in exchange for 935,235 Class B units in accordance with elective exchange notices submitted pursuant to the Class B Exchange Agreement. A corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock were automatically redeemed at par value and canceled in connection with such exchange and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. In March 2022, we issued 350,000 shares of Class A common stock to a limited partner of the Partnership in exchange for 350,000 Class B units in accordance with elective exchange notices submitted pursuant to the Class B Exchange Agreement. A corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock were automatically redeemed at par value and canceled in connection with such exchange and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. Organizational Structure In connection with the Reorganization and IPO, SSG became a holding company and its only business is to act as the managing member of the General Partner, and its only material assets are Class A units in the Partnership and 100% of the interests in the General Partner. In its capacity as the sole managing member of the General Partner, SSG indirectly operates and controls all of the Partnerships business and affairs. Therefore, we consolidate the financial results of the Partnership and report non controlling interests (NCI) related to the Class B units and Class C units held by partners of the Partnership in our consolidated financial statements. 78 Table of Contents Pursuant to the StepStone Limited Partnership Agreement, the Class B Exchange Agreement and Class C Exchange Agreement that SSG and the Partnership entered into with partners holding Class B units and Class C units of the Partnership, respectively, each Class B unit or Class C unit is exchangeable for one share of SSGs Class A common stock or, at SSGs election, for cash, subject to certain restrictions specified in the relevant exchange agreement. When a Class B unit or Class C unit is surrendered for exchange, it will not be available for reissuance. When a Class B unit is exchanged for a share of SSGs Class A common stock, a corresponding share of SSGs Class B common stock will automatically be redeemed by SSG at par value and canceled. There are no corresponding shares of common stock for the Class C units. The diagram below illustrates our organizational structure as of March 31, 2022. Amounts may not sum to total due to rounding. (1) The partners of the Partnership other than StepStone Group Inc. are: the General Partner, which holds a 100% general partner interest and no economic interests; certain members of management, employee owners and outside investors, all of whom own Class B units and an equivalent number of shares of Class B common stock; certain members of management and employees who own Class B2 units; and certain employee owners who own Class C units. (2) Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote and vote together with the Class B common stock as a single class, except as set forth in SSGs amended and restated certificate of incorporation or as required by law. (3) Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to five votes prior to a Sunset (as defined below). After a Sunset becomes effective, each share of our Class B common stock will then entitle its holder to one vote. The economic rights of our Class B common stock are limited to the right to be redeemed at par value. 79 Table of Contents A Sunset is triggered upon the earliest to occur of the following: (i) Monte Brem, Scott Hart, Jason Ment, Jose Fernandez, Johnny Randel, Michael McCabe, Mark Maruszewski, Thomas Keck, Thomas Bradley, David Jeffrey and Darren Friedman (including their respective family trusts and any other permitted transferees, the Sunset Holders) collectively cease to maintain direct or indirect beneficial ownership of at least 10% of the outstanding shares of Class A common stock (determined assuming all outstanding Class B units have been exchanged for Class A common stock); (ii) the Sunset Holders cease collectively to maintain direct or indirect beneficial ownership of an aggregate of at least 25% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock, before giving effect to a Sunset; and (iii) September 18, 2025. As of March 31, 2022 the Sunset Holders collectively maintained direct or indirect beneficial ownership of approximately 31.3% of the Class A common stock (determined assuming all outstanding Class B units have been exchanged for Class A common stock) and approximately 55.9% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Ownership of Our Businesses Certain of our consolidated subsidiaries are not wholly owned by us. To the extent these subsidiaries are not wholly owned, substantially all of the other owners are current StepStone professionals working for the related businesses. We believe this ownership structure has benefited us by aligning our interests with the interests of our employees. We use, and expect to continue to use, a combination of our equity ownership, governance rights and other contractual arrangements to control operations of these businesses. SSG consolidates all entities that it controls due to a majority voting interest or because it is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. See note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report for information on variable interest entities. The diagram below summarizes the ownership structure of the Partnerships consolidated operations on a fully diluted basis. 80 Table of Contents Segments We operate as one business, a fully integrated private markets solutions provider. Our chief operating decision maker, which consisted of our co chief executive officers together, through December 31, 2021, and consists of the chief executive officer beginning January 1, 2022, utilizes a consolidated approach to assess performance and allocate resources. As such, we operate in one business segment. Key Financial Measures Our key financial measures are discussed below. Additional information regarding our significant accounting policies can be found in note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report. Revenues We generate revenues primarily from management and advisory fees, incentive fees and allocations of carried interest. Management and Advisory Fees, Net Management and advisory fees, net, consist of fees received from managing SMAs and focused commingled funds, advisory, data and administrative services, and portfolio analytics and reporting. Management fees from SMAs are generally based on a contractual rate applied to committed capital or net invested capital under management. These fees will vary over the life of the contract due to changes in the fee basis or contractual rate changes or thresholds, built in declines in applicable contractual rates, and or changes in net invested capital balances. The weighted average management fee rate from SMAs was approximately 0.39% and 0.40% of average FEAUM in fiscal 2021 and 2022, respectively. Management fees from focused commingled funds are generally based on a specified fee rate applied against client capital commitments during a defined investment or commitment period. Thereafter, management fees are typically calculated based on a contractual rate applied against net invested capital, or a stepped down fee rate applied against the initial commitment. The weighted average management fee rate from focused commingled funds was approximately 0.90% and 0.85% of average FEAUM in fiscal 2021 and 2022, respectively, and primarily reflected the timing of new funds and shifts in asset class mix. The weighted average management fee rate across SMAs and focused commingled funds was approximately 0.52% and 0.52% of average FEAUM in fiscal 2021 and 2022, respectively. Fee revenues from advisory, SPAR, SPI or administrative services are generally annual fixed fees, which vary based on the scope of services we provide. We also provide certain project based or event driven advisory services. The fees for these services are negotiated and typically paid upon successful delivery of services or on the execution of the event driven service. Because advisory fees are negotiated and typically paid upon successful delivery of services or on the execution of the event driven service, advisory fees do not necessarily correlate with the total size of our AUA. Management fees are reflected net of (i) certain professional and administrative services that we arrange to be performed by third parties on behalf of investment funds and (ii) certain distribution and servicing fees paid to third party financial institutions. In both situations, we are acting as an agent because we do not control the services provided by the third parties before they are transferred to the customer. 81 Table of Contents Performance Fees We earn two types of performance fee revenues: incentive fees and carried interest allocations, as described below. Incentive fees comprise fees earned from certain client investment mandates for which we do not have a general partnership interest in a StepStone Fund. Carried interest allocations include the allocation of performance based fees, commonly referred to as carried interest, from limited partners in the StepStone Funds to us. In connection with the Greenspring acquisition, we did not acquire any direct economic interests in the carried interest allocations of certain legacy Greenspring funds. As a result, carried interest allocations in respect of such legacy Greenspring funds have been reflected as legacy Greenspring carried interest allocations in the consolidated statements of income, with a corresponding amount reflected as legacy Greenspring performance fee related compensation as these amounts are payable to certain employees. As of March 31, 2022, we had over $55 billion of performance fee eligible capital (excluding certain legacy Greenspring funds) across approximately 155 programs. Incentive fees are generally calculated as a percentage of the profits (up to 10%) earned in respect of certain accounts for which we are the investment adviser, subject to the achievement of minimum return levels or performance benchmarks. Incentive fees are a form of variable consideration and represent contractual fee arrangements in our contracts with our customers. Incentive fees are typically subject to reversal until the end of a defined performance period, as these fees are affected by changes in the fair value of the assets under management or advisement over such performance period. Moreover, incentive fees that are received prior to the end of the defined performance period are typically subject to clawback, net of tax. We recognize incentive fee revenue only when these amounts are realized and no longer subject to significant risk of reversal, which is typically at the end of a defined performance period and or upon expiration of the associated clawback period (i.e., crystallization). However, clawback terms for incentive fees received prior to crystallization only require the return of amounts on a net of tax basis. Accordingly, the tax related portion of incentive fees received in advance of crystallization is not subject to clawback and is therefore recognized as revenue immediately upon receipt. Incentive fees received in advance of crystallization that remain subject to clawback are recorded as deferred incentive fee revenue and included in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. Carried interest allocations include the allocation of performance based fees to us from limited partners in the StepStone Funds in which we hold an equity interest. We are entitled to a carried interest allocation (typically 5% to 15%) based on cumulative fund or account performance to date, irrespective of whether such amounts have been realized. These carried interest allocations are subject to the achievement of minimum return levels (typically 5% to 10%), in accordance with the terms set forth in the respective funds governing documents. We account for our investment balances in the StepStone Funds, including carried interest allocations, under the equity method of accounting because we are presumed to have significant influence as the general partner or managing member. Accordingly, carried interest allocations are not deemed to be within the scope of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 (ASC 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers . Legacy Greenspring carried interest allocations include the allocation of carried interest to legacy Greenspring general partner entities from limited partners in certain legacy Greenspring funds in which the legacy Greenspring general partner entities hold an equity interest. The legacy Greenspring general partner entities are entitled to a carried interest allocation (typically 5% to 20%) based on cumulative fund or account performance to date, irrespective of whether such amounts have been realized. We account for the investments and carried interest allocations under the equity method of accounting. We do not have any direct economic interests in the legacy Greenspring general partner entities and thus are not entitled to any carried interest allocation from certain legacy Greenspring funds. All of the carried interest allocations in respect of such legacy Greenspring funds are payable to employees who are considered affiliates of the Company and are therefore reflected as legacy Greenspring performance fee related compensation in the consolidated statements of income. Accordingly, legacy Greenspring carried interest allocations are not deemed to be within the scope of ASC 606. 82 Table of Contents We recognize revenue attributable to carried interest allocations from a StepStone Fund based on the amount that would be due to us pursuant to the funds governing documents, assuming the fund was liquidated based on the current fair value of its underlying investments as of that date. Accordingly, the amount recognized as carried interest allocation revenue reflects our share of the gains and losses of the associated funds underlying investments measured at their then fair values, relative to the fair values as of the end of the prior period. We record the amount of carried interest allocated to us as of each period end as accrued carried interest allocations, which is included as a component of investments in the consolidated balance sheets. Carried interest is realized when an underlying investment is profitably disposed of and the funds cumulative returns are in excess of the specific hurdle rates, as defined in the applicable governing documents. Carried interest is subject to reversal to the extent that the amount received to date exceeds the amount due to us based on cumulative results. As such, a liability is accrued for the potential clawback obligations if amounts previously distributed to us would require repayment to a fund if such fund were to be liquidated based on the current fair value of their underlying investments as of the reporting date. Actual repayment obligations generally do not become realized until the end of a funds life. As of March 31, 2022 and 2021, no material amounts for potential clawback obligations had been accrued. Expenses Cash based compensation primarily includes salaries, bonuses, employee benefits and employer related payroll taxes. Equity based compensation represents grants of equity related awards or arrangements to certain employees and directors. Performance fee related compensation represents the portion of carried interest allocation revenue and incentive fees that have been awarded to employees as a form of long term incentive compensation. Performance fee related compensation is generally tied to the investment performance of the StepStone Funds. Approximately 50% of carried interest allocation revenue is awarded to employees as part of our long term incentive compensation plan, fostering alignment of interest with our clients and investors, and retaining key investment professionals. Carried interest related compensation is accounted for as compensation expense in conjunction with the related carried interest allocation revenue and, until paid, is recorded as a component of accrued carried interest related compensation in the consolidated balance sheets. Carried interest related compensation expense also includes the portion of net carried interest allocation revenue attributable to equity holders of our consolidated subsidiaries that are not 100% owned by us. Amounts presented as realized indicate the amounts paid or payable to employees based on the receipt of carried interest allocation revenue from realized investment activity. Carried interest related compensation expense may be subject to reversal to the extent that the related carried interest allocation revenue is reversed. Carried interest related compensation paid to employees may be subject to clawback on an after tax basis under certain scenarios. To date, no material amounts of realized carried interest related compensation have been reversed. Incentive fee related compensation is accrued as compensation expense when it is probable and estimable that payment will be made. Legacy Greenspring performance fee related compensation represents the legacy Greenspring carried interest allocations which are entirely payable to certain employees. Legacy Greenspring carried interest related compensation is accounted for as compensation expense in conjunction with the related legacy Greenspring carried interest allocation revenue and, until paid, is recorded as a component of legacy Greenspring accrued carried interest related compensation in the consolidated balance sheets. Legacy Greenspring carried interest related compensation expense may be subject to reversal to the extent that the related legacy Greenspring carried interest allocation revenue is reversed. However, none of the legacy Greenspring carried interest allocation revenue is attributable to the Company. 83 Table of Contents General, administrative and other includes occupancy, travel and related costs, insurance, legal and other professional fees, depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, system related costs, and other general costs associated with operating our business. Other Income (Expense) Investment income primarily represents our share of earnings from the investments we make in our SMAs and focused commingled funds. We, either directly or through our subsidiaries, generally have a general partner interest in the StepStone Funds, which invest in primary funds, secondary funds and co investment funds, or a combination thereof. Investment income will increase or decrease based on the earnings of the StepStone Funds, which are primarily driven by net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on the underlying investments held by the funds. Our co investment funds invest in underlying portfolio companies and therefore their valuation changes from period to period are more influenced by individual companies than our primary and secondary funds, which have exposures across multiple portfolio companies in underlying private markets funds. Our SMAs and focused commingled funds invest across various industries, strategies and geographies. Consequently, our general partner investments do not include any significant concentrations in a specific sector or geography outside the United States. Investment income and legacy Greenspring investment income exclude carried interest allocations, which are presented as revenues as described above. Legacy Greenspring investment income represents our share of earnings from the investments we make in certain legacy Greenspring funds through the legacy Greenspring general partner entities. We have no direct economic interests in the legacy Greenspring general partner entities. As a result, all such income is reflected as non controlling interests in legacy Greenspring entities. Legacy Greenspring investment income will increase or decrease based on the earnings of such legacy Greenspring funds, which are primarily driven by net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on the underlying investments held by the funds. Interest income consists of income earned on cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, marketable securities and certificates of deposit. Interest expense primarily consists of the interest expense on the Revolver and our previously outstanding term loan, as well as the related amortization of deferred financing costs and amortization of original issue discount. The year ended March 31, 2021 includes a $3.5 million charge related to the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs and discount in connection with the full repayment of our previously outstanding term loan in connection with the IPO in September 2020. Other income (loss) includes foreign currency transaction gains and losses and non operating activities. Income Tax Expense We are a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and therefore are subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes on our share of taxable income generated by the Partnership. Prior to the Reorganization and IPO, we operated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and therefore were generally not subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes. The Partnership is treated as a pass through entity for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. As such, income generated by the Partnership flows through to its limited partners, including us, and is generally not subject to U.S. federal or state income tax at the Partnership level. Our non U.S. subsidiaries generally operate as corporate entities in non U.S. jurisdictions, with certain of these entities subject to local or non U.S. income taxes. Additionally, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to local jurisdiction income taxes at the entity level. Accordingly, the tax liability with respect to income attributable to non controlling interests in the Partnership is borne by the holders of such non controlling interests. 84 Table of Contents Non Controlling Interests Non controlling interests (NCI) reflect the portion of income or loss and the corresponding equity attributable to third party equity holders and employees in certain consolidated subsidiaries that are not 100% owned by us. Non controlling interests are presented as separate components in our consolidated statements of income to clearly distinguish between our interests and the economic interests of third parties and employees in those entities. Net income (loss) attributable to SSG, as reported in the consolidated statements of income, is presented net of the portion of net income (loss) attributable to holders of non controlling interests. Non controlling interests in subsidiaries represent the economic interests in the consolidated subsidiaries of the Partnership held by third parties and employees in those entities. Non controlling interests in subsidiaries are allocated a share of income or loss in the respective consolidated subsidiary in proportion to their relative ownership interests, after consideration of contractual arrangements that govern allocations of income or loss. Non controlling interests in legacy Greenspring entities represent the economic interests in the legacy Greenspring general partner entities. We did not acquire any direct economic interests in the legacy Greenspring general partner entities. As a result, all of the net income related to the legacy Greenspring general partner entities is allocated to non controlling interests in legacy Greenspring entities. Non controlling interests in the Partnership represent the economic interests in the Partnership held by the Class B and Class C unitholders of the Partnership. Non controlling interests in the Partnership are allocated a share of income or loss in the Partnership in proportion to their relative ownership interests, after consideration of contractual arrangements that govern allocations of income or loss. Key Operating Metrics We monitor certain operating metrics that are either common to the asset management industry or that we believe provide important data regarding our business. Assets Under Management AUM primarily reflects the assets associated with our SMAs and focused commingled funds. We classify assets as AUM if we have full discretion over the investment decisions in an account or have responsibility or custody of assets. Although management fees are based on a variety of factors and are not linearly correlated with AUM, we believe AUM is a useful metric for assessing the relative size and scope of our asset management business. Our AUM is calculated as the sum of (i) NAV of client portfolio assets, including the StepStone Funds and (ii) the unfunded commitments of clients to the underlying investments and the StepStone Funds. Our AUM reflects the investment valuations in respect of the underlying investments of our funds and accounts on a three month lag, adjusted for new client account activity through the period end. Our AUM does not include post period investment valuation or cash activity. AUM as of March 31, 2022 reflects final data for the prior period (December 31, 2021), adjusted for net new client account activity through March 31, 2022. NAV data for underlying investments is as of December 31, 2021, as reported by underlying managers up to 115 days following December 31, 2021. When NAV data is not available by 115 days following December 31, 2021, such NAVs are adjusted for cash activity following the last available reported NAV. 85 Table of Contents Assets Under Advisement AUA consists of client assets for which we do not have full discretion to make investment decisions but play a role in advising the client or monitoring their investments. We generally earn revenue for advisory related services on a contractual fixed fee basis. Advisory related services include asset allocation, strategic planning, development of investment policies and guidelines, screening and recommending investments, legal negotiations, monitoring and reporting on investments, and investment manager review and due diligence. Advisory fees vary by client based on the scope of services, investment activity and other factors. Most of our advisory fees are fixed, and therefore, increases or decreases in AUA do not necessarily lead to proportionate changes in revenue. Our AUA is calculated as the sum of (i) the NAV of client portfolio assets for which we do not have full discretion and (ii) the unfunded commitments of clients to the underlying investments. Our AUA reflects the investment valuations in respect of the underlying investments of our client accounts on a three month lag, adjusted for new client account activity through the period end. Our AUA does not include post period investment valuation or cash activity. AUA as of March 31, 2022 reflects final data for the prior period (December 31, 2021), adjusted for net new client account activity through March 31, 2022. NAV data for underlying investments is as of December 31, 2021, as reported by underlying managers up to 115 days following December 31, 2021. When NAV data is not available by 115 days following December 31, 2021, such NAVs are adjusted for cash activity following the last available reported NAV. Beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2021, we modified our AUA computation to include, with respect to our advisory clients, the portion of their portfolio assets for which we do not directly provide recommendations, monitoring and or reporting services. Prior period amounts have not been recast for this change because comparable historical data does not exist. The change resulted in an increase to AUA of approximately $70 billion for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. Fee Earning AUM FEAUM reflects the assets from which we earn management fee revenue (i.e., fee basis) and includes assets in our SMAs, focused commingled funds and assets held directly by our clients for which we have fiduciary oversight and are paid fees as the manager of the assets. Our SMAs and focused commingled funds typically pay management fees based on capital commitments, net invested capital and, in certain cases, NAV, depending on the fee terms. Management fees are only marginally affected by market appreciation or depreciation because substantially all of the StepStone Funds pay management fees based on capital commitments or net invested capital. As a result, management fees and FEAUM are not materially affected by changes in market value. Our calculation of FEAUM may differ from the calculations of other asset managers and, as a result, may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other asset managers. Undeployed Fee Earning Capital Undeployed fee earning capital represents the amount of capital commitments to StepStone Funds that has not yet been invested or considered active but will generate management fee revenue once this capital is invested or activated. Non GAAP Financial Measures Below is a description of our non GAAP financial measures. These measures are presented on a basis other than GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. 86 Table of Contents Adjusted Revenues and Adjusted Net Income Adjusted net income (ANI) is a non GAAP performance measure that we present on a pre tax and after tax basis used to evaluate profitability. ANI represents the after tax net realized income attributable to us. The components of revenues used in the determination of ANI (adjusted revenues) comprise net management and advisory fees, incentive fees (including the deferred portion) and realized carried interest allocations. In addition, ANI excludes: (a) unrealized carried interest allocation revenues and related compensation, (b) unrealized investment income, (c) equity based compensation for awards granted prior to and in connection with our IPO, (d) amortization of intangibles and (e) certain other items that we believe are not indicative of our core operating performance, including charges associated with acquisitions and corporate transactions, contract terminations and employee severance. ANI does not reflect legacy Greenspring carried interest allocation revenues, legacy Greenspring carried interest related compensation and legacy Greenspring investment income as none of the economics are attributable to us. ANI is income before taxes fully taxed at our blended statutory rate. We believe ANI and adjusted revenues are useful to investors because they enable investors to evaluate the performance of our business across reporting periods. Fee Related Earnings Fee related earnings (FRE) is a non GAAP performance measure used to monitor our baseline earnings from recurring management and advisory fees. FRE is a component of ANI and comprises net management and advisory fees, less operating expenses other than performance fee related compensation, equity based compensation for awards granted prior to and in connection with our IPO, amortization of intangibles and other non core operating items. FRE is presented before income taxes. We believe FRE is useful to investors because it provides additional insight into the operating profitability of our business and our ability to cover direct base compensation and operating expenses from total fee revenues. Adjusted Net Income Per Share ANI per share measures our per share earnings assuming all Class B units and Class C units in the Partnership are exchanged for Class A common stock in SSG, including the dilutive impact of outstanding equity based awards. ANI per share is calculated as ANI divided by adjusted shares outstanding. We believe ANI per share is useful to investors because it enables them to better evaluate per share operating performance across reporting periods. 87 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our consolidated results of operations for the periods presented. The information is derived from our accompanying consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Year Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 Revenues Management and advisory fees, net $ 380,257 $ 285,462 $ 235,205 Performance fees: Incentive fees 11,593 5,474 3,410 Carried interest allocations: Realized 200,718 62,953 46,177 Unrealized 585,851 433,827 161,819 Total carried interest allocations 786,569 496,780 207,996 Legacy Greenspring carried interest allocations (1) 187,106 Total revenues 1,365,525 787,716 446,611 Expenses Compensation and benefits: Cash based compensation 197,482 157,123 130,730 Equity based compensation 13,996 7,899 1,915 Performance fee related compensation: Realized 91,208 30,532 26,958 Unrealized 312,903 215,508 82,701 Total performance fee related compensation 404,111 246,040 109,659 Legacy Greenspring performance fee related compensation (1) 187,106 Total compensation and benefits 802,695 411,062 242,304 General, administrative and other 110,468 48,485 52,363 Total expenses 913,163 459,547 294,667 Other income (expense) Investment income 26,160 16,407 6,926 Legacy Greenspring investment income (1) 32,586 Interest income 337 413 1,436 Interest expense (1,113) (7,360) (10,211) Other income (loss) 2,249 220 (1,355) Total other income (expense) 60,219 9,680 (3,204) Income before income tax 512,581 337,849 148,740 Income tax expense 28,300 23,256 3,955 Net income 484,281 314,593 144,785 Less: Net income attributable to non controlling interests in subsidiaries 26,608 23,176 12,869 Less: Net income attributable to non controlling interests in legacy Greenspring entities (1) 32,586 Less: Net income attributable to non controlling interests in the Partnership 231,202 228,783 131,916 Net income attributable to StepStone Group Inc. $ 193,885 $ 62,634 $ (1) Reflects amounts attributable to consolidated VIEs for which we did not acquire any direct economic interests. See notes 3, 5 and 15 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. 88 Table of Contents Revenues Year Ended March 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2021 Total revenues increased $577.8 million, or 73%, to $1,365.5 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021, due to higher carried interest allocations, net management and advisory fees, incentive fees and the inclusion of legacy Greenspring carried interest allocations in the current year, in each case, as described below. Net management and advisory fees increased $94.8 million, or 33%, to $380.3 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021. The increase was driven by new client activity and a 39% growth in average FEAUM (or 25% excluding the impact of Greenspring) across the platform, as well as retroactive fees of $7.7 million from the final closing for StepStone Tactical Growth Fund III and additional closings of StepStones private equity co investment fund. The prior year period included $9.0 million of retroactive fees from the final closing of StepStone Real Estate Partners IV (SREP IV). For new investors, fees relating to periods prior to the closing date are considered retroactive. Incentive fees increased $6.1 million, or 112%, to $11.6 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021, reflecting higher realization activity and recognition of deferred incentive fees in the current year. Realized carried interest allocation revenues increased $137.8 million, or 219%, to $200.7 million for fiscal 2022, reflecting higher realization activity within our private equity funds. Unrealized carried interest allocation revenues include the reversal of realized carried interest allocation revenues. Excluding the reversal of $200.7 million, unrealized carried interest allocation revenues increased $289.8 million, or 58%, to $786.6 million for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021. The increase in unrealized carried interest allocations for fiscal 2022 primarily reflected a larger increase in the cumulative allocation of gains associated with the underlying portfolios within our private equity funds. Legacy Greenspring carried interest allocation revenues of $187.1 million for fiscal 2022 reflect gross realized carried interest allocations of $92.2 million and unrealized carried interest allocations, net of the reversal of realized carried interest allocations, of $94.9 million for the period from September 20, 2021 to March 31, 2022. Year Ended March 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2020 Total revenues increased $341.1 million, or 76%, to $787.7 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020, due to higher carried interest allocation, net management and advisory fees and incentive fees. Net management and advisory fees increased $50.3 million, or 21%, to $285.5 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. This increase was driven by new client activity and a 23% growth in average FEAUM across the platform, including retroactive fees of $9.0 million from SREP IV, which had its final close in September 2020. The increases were partially offset by a $1.5 million decline in revenues associated with liquidating portfolios for which StepStone serves as the replacement manager. For new investors, fees relating to periods prior to the closing date are considered retroactive. Incentive fees increased $2.1 million, or 61%, to $5.5 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020, reflecting higher realization activity. 89 Table of Contents Realized carried interest allocation revenues increased $16.8 million, or 36%, to $63.0 million for fiscal 2021, reflecting higher realization activity within our private equity funds. Unrealized carried interest allocation revenues include the reversal of realized carried interest allocation revenues. Excluding the reversal of $63.0 million, unrealized carried interest allocation revenues increased $288.8 million, or 139%, to $496.8 million for fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. The increase in unrealized carried interest allocation for fiscal 2021 was primarily attributable to a larger increase in the cumulative allocation of gains associated with the underlying portfolios within our private equity funds primarily driven by the continued recovery in global financial markets despite the ongoing economic impacts of COVID 19. For fiscal 2021, our investments in StepStone Funds and accrued carried interest allocations initially experienced a $128.5 million decline during the first three months, primarily reflecting the unrealized depreciation in the fair value of certain underlying fund investments driven by the impact of COVID 19, and subsequently saw a significant increase of $625.3 million, primarily reflecting the unrealized appreciation in the fair value of certain underlying fund investments primarily driven by the continued recovery in global financial markets. Expenses Year Ended March 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2021 Total expenses increased $453.6 million, or 99%, to $913.2 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021, reflecting increases in performance fee related compensation, general, administrative and other expenses, cash based compensation, equity based compensation, and the inclusion of legacy Greenspring performance fee related compensation in the current year. Cash based compensation increased $40.4 million, or 26%, to $197.5 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021, due to increased staffing and compensation levels. Our average full time headcount increased 24% (or 12% excluding the impact of Greenspring) in the current year period as compared to the prior year period. Equity based compensation increased $6.1 million, or 77%, to $14.0 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021. The increase was attributable to the grant of restricted stock units (RSUs) made to certain employees and directors in connection with our IPO in September 2020. As such grants were not outstanding for the period prior to the IPO, this resulted in lower expense in the prior year period. The increase was also attributable to additional grants of RSUs made to certain employees and directors in the current year period. Performance fee related compensation expense increased $158.1 million, or 64%, to $404.1 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021, primarily reflecting the increase in carried interest allocation revenue. Realized performance fee related compensation increased $60.7 million, or 199%, to $91.2 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021, primarily reflecting higher realization activity. Legacy Greenspring performance fee related compensation expense of $187.1 million for fiscal 2022 reflects gross realized performance fee related compensation expense of $92.2 million and unrealized performance fee related compensation expense, net of the reversal of realized performance fee related compensation expense, of $94.9 million for the period from September 20, 2021 to March 31, 2022. 90 Table of Contents General, administrative and other expenses increased $62.0 million, or 128%, to $110.5 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021. The overall increase primarily reflected increases of $21.2 million in amortization expense for intangibles, $13.9 million in transaction costs, $8.0 million in loss on change in fair value for contingent consideration obligation, $4.8 million in professional fees, $3.6 million of travel and associated costs for investment evaluation and client service, $2.9 million in insurance costs, $2.6 million in information and technology expenses, $1.8 million in occupancy costs, $1.6 million in recruiting costs and other general operating expenses. We anticipate travel and other expenses will continue to increase to pre pandemic levels as the COVID 19 situation improves, and that costs associated with being a public company will continue to be reflected in our expenses going forward. Year Ended March 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2020 Total expenses increased $164.9 million, or 56%, to $459.5 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020, due to increases in performance fee related compensation, cash based compensation and equity based compensation, partially offset by decreases in general, administrative and other expenses. Cash based compensation increased $26.4 million, or 20%, to $157.1 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020, due to increased staffing and compensation levels. Our average full time headcount increased 16% in the current year period as compared to the prior year period. Equity based compensation increased $6.0 million, or 312%, to $7.9 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. The increase was primarily attributable to RSU grants made to certain employees and directors in connection with our IPO in September 2020. Performance fee related compensation expense increased $136.4 million, or 124%, to $246.0 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020, primarily reflecting the increase in carried interest allocation revenue. Realized performance fee related compensation increased $3.6 million, or 13%, to $30.5 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020, primarily reflecting higher realization activity. General, administrative and other expenses decreased $3.9 million, or 7%, to $48.5 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. The decrease primarily reflected declines of $7.0 million in travel and associated costs for investment evaluation and client service, $2.5 million in marketing expenses, and $1.7 million in amortization expense for intangibles, and other general operating expenses, partially offset by an increase of $2.8 million in insurance costs, $2.3 million in legal and professional fees, and $2.0 million in information and technology expenses. We anticipate travel and other expenses will return to prior levels as the COVID 19 situation improves, and that the full year impact of costs associated with being a public company will be reflected in our expenses going forward. Other Income (Expense) Year Ended March 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2021 Investment income increased $9.8 million, or 59%, to $26.2 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021, primarily reflecting overall changes in the valuations of the underlying investments in the StepStone Funds. Legacy Greenspring investment income of $32.6 million for fiscal 2022 reflects gross realized investment income of $7.8 million and unrealized investment income, net of the reversal of realized investment income, of $24.8 million for the period from September 20, 2021 to March 31, 2022. Interest income decreased $0.1 million, or 18%, to $0.3 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021. 91 Table of Contents Interest expense decreased $6.2 million, or 85%, to $1.1 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021. The decrease was primarily due to the full repayment of our previously outstanding senior secured term loan (Term Loan B) in connection with the IPO in September 2020, partially offset by interest on average outstanding balances under the Revolver during the current period. Other income (loss) increased $2.0 million, or 922%, to $2.2 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021, primarily reflecting gains related to adjustments in connection with the Tax Receivable Agreements, offset by net foreign currency transaction losses and losses related to the write off of certain property and equipment. Year Ended March 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2020 Investment income increased $9.5 million, or 137%, to $16.4 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020, primarily reflecting overall changes in the valuations of the underlying investments in the StepStone Funds. Interest income decreased $1.0 million, or 71%, to $0.4 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. Interest expense decreased $2.9 million, or 28%, to $7.4 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. The decrease was primarily due to the full repayment of our Term Loan B in connection with the IPO in September 2020, partially offset by the write off of $3.5 million in unamortized debt issuance costs and discount with the full repayment of our Term Loan B. Other income (loss) increased $1.6 million to income of $0.2 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020, primarily reflecting favorable foreign currency translation. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense primarily reflects U.S. federal and state income taxes on our share of taxable income generated by the Partnership, as well as local and foreign income taxes of certain of the Partnerships subsidiaries. Prior to the Reorganization and IPO, income tax expense consisted of local income taxes and foreign income taxes for subsidiaries that have operations outside of the United States, as the Partnership is treated as a flow through entity and is not subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 5.5%, 6.9%, and 2.6% for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our overall effective tax rate in each of the periods described above is less than the statutory rate primarily because a portion of income is allocated to non controlling interests, as the tax liability on such income is borne by the holders of such non controlling interests. Additionally, for the period prior to the Reorganization and IPO, we operated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and were not subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes. Year Ended March 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2021 Income tax expense increased $5.0 million, or 22%, to $28.3 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021. The increase was primarily due to the additional U.S. federal and state income taxes recognized on our share of taxable income generated by the Partnership as a result of our increased ownership in the Partnership, partially offset by the release of a valuation allowance during the current year as a result of the Greenspring acquisition. Additionally, for the period prior to the Reorganization and IPO, we operated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and were not subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes. 92 Table of Contents Year Ended March 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2020 Income tax expense increased $19.3 million, or 488%, to $23.3 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. The increase was primarily related to U.S. federal and state income taxes recognized on our share of taxable income generated by the Partnership for fiscal 2021 and a general increase in taxes paid in non U.S. subsidiaries. For the period prior to the Reorganization and IPO, we were not subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes. Net Income Attributable to Non Controlling Interests in Subsidiaries Net income attributable to non controlling interests in subsidiaries increased $3.4 million, or 15%, to $26.6 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in income generated by our consolidated subsidiaries not wholly owned by us. Net income attributable to non controlling interests in subsidiaries increased $10.3 million, or 80%, to $23.2 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in income generated by our consolidated subsidiaries not wholly owned by us. Net Income Attributable to Non Controlling Interests in Legacy Greenspring Entities Net income attributable to non controlling interests in legacy Greenspring entities represents the net income or loss attributable to the interests held by the legacy Greenspring general partner entities. We did not acquire any direct economic interests in the legacy Greenspring general partner entities. As a result, all of the net income or loss related to the legacy Greenspring general partner entities is allocated to non controlling interests in legacy Greenspring entities. Net income attributable to non controlling interests in legacy Greenspring entities was $32.6 million for fiscal 2022. Net Income Attributable to Non Controlling Interests in the Partnership Net income attributable to non controlling interests in the Partnership represents the portion of net income or loss attributable to the interests held by the Class B and Class C unitholders of the Partnership. Net income attributable to non controlling interests in the Partnership was $231.2 million, $228.8 million and $131.9 million for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Prior to the Reorganization and IPO, all of our income or loss relates to the Partnership and has been presented as non controlling interests in the Partnership. Operating Metrics Assets Under Management AUM was $67 billion as of March 31, 2020, $86 billion as of March 31, 2021 and $134 billion as of March 31, 2022. The acquisition of Greenspring added $22 billion of AUM as of September 20, 2021. Assets Under Advisement Assets related to our advisory accounts were $229 billion as of March 31, 2020, $340 billion as of March 31, 2021 and $436 billion as of March 31, 2022. As described under Key Operating MetricsAssets Under Advisement, we modified our calculation of AUA beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2021 to include, with respect to our advisory clients, the portion of their portfolio assets for which we do not directly provide recommendations, monitoring and or reporting services. This change increased AUA by approximately $70 billion for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. Prior period amounts have not been recast for this change because such historical data does not exist. 93 Table of Contents Fee Earning AUM Year Ended March 31, 2022 FEAUM increased $23 billion, or 45%, to approximately $75 billion as of March 31, 2022 as compared to approximately $52 billion as of March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to a $14 billion increase in focused commingled funds due to the Greenspring acquisition, which added approximately $11 billion of FEAUM, and $9 billion from SMAs. Year Ended March 31, 2021 FEAUM increased $11 billion, or 26%, to approximately $52 billion as of March 31, 2021 as compared to approximately $41 billion as of March 31, 2020. Of the increase, approximately $9 billion was from SMAs and approximately $1 billion was from focused commingled funds. Year Ended March 31, 2022 (in millions) SMAs Focused Commingled Funds Total Beginning balance $ 40,561 $ 11,447 $ 52,008 Contributions (1) 11,839 4,364 16,203 Distributions (2) (3,235) (1,564) (4,799) Acquisitions (3) 11,407 11,407 Market value, FX and other (4) 421 (67) 354 Ending balance $ 49,586 $ 25,587 $ 75,173 Year Ended March 31, 2021 (in millions) SMAs Focused Commingled Funds Total Beginning balance $ 31,089 $ 10,104 $ 41,193 Contributions (1) 9,567 1,843 11,410 Distributions (2) (570) (370) (940) Market value, FX and other (4) 475 (130) 345 Ending balance $ 40,561 $ 11,447 $ 52,008 (1) Contributions consist of new capital commitments that earn fees on committed capital and capital contributions to funds and accounts that earn fees on net invested capital or NAV. (2) Distributions consist of returns of capital from funds and accounts that pay fees on net invested capital or NAV and reductions in fee earning AUM from funds that moved from a committed capital to net invested capital fee basis or from funds and accounts that no longer pay fees. (3) Includes approximately $11.4 billion of focused commingled funds added as a result of the Greenspring acquisition. (4) Market value, FX and other primarily consist of changes in market value appreciation (depreciation) for funds that pay on NAV and the effect of foreign exchange rate changes on non U.S. dollar denominated commitments. 94 Table of Contents The following tables set forth FEAUM by asset class and selected weighted average management fee rate data: As of March 31, (in millions) 2022 2021 2020 FEAUM Private equity (1) $ 40,396 $ 24,533 $ 19,929 Infrastructure 17,737 12,605 11,424 Private debt 12,216 10,483 6,328 Real estate 4,824 4,387 3,512 Total $ 75,173 $ 52,008 $ 41,193 (1) Balance as of March 31, 2022 includes approximately $11.4 billion of focused commingled funds added as a result of the Greenspring acquisition. As of March 31, 2022 2021 Weighted average fee rate (1) Private equity (2) 0.64 % 0.62 % Real estate, infrastructure and private debt asset classes (3) 0.40 % 0.42 % Total 0.52 % 0.52 % (1) Weighted average fee rates reflect the applicable management fees for the last 12 months ending on each period presented, and is inclusive of any retroactive fees for such period. (2) The change in weighted average fee rates primarily reflected the timing of new funds. (3) The change in weighted average fee rates primarily reflected shifts in asset class mix. Undeployed Fee Earning Capital As of March 31, 2022, we had $17.0 billion of undeployed fee earning capital, which will generate management fee revenue once this capital is invested or activated. 95 Table of Contents Non GAAP Financial Measures The following table presents the components of FRE and ANI: Year Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 Management and advisory fees, net $ 380,257 $ 285,462 $ 235,205 Less: Cash based compensation 197,482 157,123 130,730 Equity based compensation (1) 822 51 General, administrative and other 110,468 48,485 52,363 Plus: Amortization of intangibles 24,497 3,339 5,028 Non core items (2) 26,260 6,342 4,419 Fee related earnings 122,242 89,484 61,559 Plus: Realized carried interest allocations 200,718 62,953 46,177 Incentive fees 11,593 5,474 3,410 Deferred incentive fees 1,438 4,700 799 Realized investment income 8,499 5,341 4,053 Interest income 337 413 1,436 Write off of unamortized deferred financing costs 3,526 Other income (loss) (3) (1,311) 220 (1,355) Less: Realized performance fee related compensation 91,208 30,532 26,958 Interest expense 1,113 7,360 10,211 Income attributable to non controlling interests in subsidiaries: Fee related earnings attributable to non controlling interests in subsidiaries (4) 27,583 23,834 12,781 Performance related earnings/other income (loss) attributable to non controlling interests in subsidiaries (5) 517 118 (729) Pre tax adjusted net income 223,095 110,267 66,858 Less: Income taxes (6) 50,152 24,865 16,715 Adjusted net income $ 172,943 $ 85,402 $ 50,143 (1) Reflects equity based compensation for awards granted subsequent to the IPO. (2) Includes compensation paid to certain equity holders as part of an acquisition earn out ($1.4 million in fiscal 2020), transaction costs ($14.2 million in fiscal 2022, $0.4 million in fiscal 2021, and $1.2 million in fiscal 2020), severance costs ($1.6 million in fiscal 2022, $4.2 million in fiscal 2021, and $1.0 million in fiscal 2020), loss on change in fair value for contingent consideration obligation ($9.6 million in fiscal 2022 and $1.6 million in fiscal 2021), compensation paid to certain employees as part of an acquisition earn out ($0.8 million in fiscal 2022) and other non core operating income and expenses. (3) Reflects other income (loss) net of amounts for Tax Receivable Agreements adjustments recognized as other income (loss) ($3.6 million for fiscal 2022). (4) Reflects the portion of fee related earnings of our subsidiaries attributable to non controlling interests. (5) Reflects components of pre tax adjusted net income of our subsidiaries attributable to non controlling interests other than fee related earnings, including incentive fees and related compensation, realized investment income, net interest expense and other income (loss). 96 Table of Contents (6) Represents corporate income taxes at a blended statutory rate of 22.5%, 22.6% and 25.0% applied to pre tax adjusted net income for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The 22.5% rate for fiscal 2022 is based on a federal statutory rate of 21.0% and a combined state, local and foreign rate net of federal benefits of 1.5%. The 22.6% rate for fiscal 2021 is based on a federal statutory rate of 21.0% and a combined state, local and foreign rate net of federal benefits of 1.6%. As we were not subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes prior to the Reorganization and IPO, a blended statutory rate of 25.0% has been applied to fiscal 2020 for comparability purposes. The decline in the blended statutory rate for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was due to updates in our state apportionment based on our most recently filed tax returns and is our best estimate of our blended statutory tax rate moving forward. The decline in the blended statutory rate for fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 was due to updates in our state apportionment. Adjusted Revenues and Adjusted Net Income Year Ended March 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2021 Adjusted revenues increased $235.4 million, or 66%, to $594.0 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021, primarily reflecting increases in net management and advisory fees, realized carried interest allocation revenues and incentive fees (including the deferred portion). ANI increased $87.5 million, or 103%, to $172.9 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021, primarily due to increases in FRE as discussed below, as well as higher net realized performance fee related earnings (incentive fees, including the deferred portion, plus realized carried interest allocation revenues, less realized performance fee related compensation). These increases were partially offset by a higher allocation of income to non controlling interests. Year Ended March 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2020 Adjusted revenues increased $73.0 million, or 26%, to $358.6 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020, primarily reflecting increases in net management and advisory fees, realized carried interest allocation revenues and incentive fees (including the deferred portion). ANI increased $35.3 million, or 70%, to $85.4 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020, primarily due to increases in FRE as discussed below, as well as higher net realized performance fee related earnings. These increases were partially offset by a higher allocation of income to non controlling interests. Adjusted Net Income Per Share The following table shows a reconciliation of diluted weighted average shares of Class A common stock outstanding to adjusted shares outstanding used in the computation of ANI per share for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020. As Class A common stock did not exist prior to the Reorganization and IPO, the number of adjusted shares outstanding used in the computation of ANI per share for all prior year periods presented reflect the number of adjusted shares for the period from the IPO date to September 30, 2020 for comparability purposes. 97 Table of Contents Year Ended March 31, 2022 2021 2020 (in thousands, except share and per share amounts) Adjusted net income $ 172,943 $ 85,402 $ 50,143 Weighted average shares of Class A common stock outstanding Basic (1) 49,833,760 29,657,805 29,237,500 Assumed vesting of RSUs 1,289,809 1,151,579 745,347 Assumed vesting and exchange of Class B2 units 2,476,681 2,465,420 2,411,318 Exchange of Class B units in the Partnership (1) 52,028,095 65,158,526 65,578,831 Exchange of Class C units in the Partnership (2) 1,563,316 Adjusted shares (3) 107,191,661 98,433,330 97,972,996 Adjusted net income per share $ 1.61 $ 0.87 $ 0.51 (1) Assumes the full exchange of Class B units in the Partnership for Class A common stock of SSG pursuant to the Class B Exchange Agreement. (2) Assumes the full exchange of Class C units in the Partnership for Class A common stock of SSG pursuant to the Class C Exchange Agreement. (3) Class A common stock did not exist prior to the Reorganization and IPO in September 2020. As a result, the computation of ANI per share for the period prior to the Reorganization and IPO assumes the same number of adjusted shares outstanding as reported for the period after the IPO through September 30, 2020. Fee Related Earnings Year Ended March 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2021 FRE increased $32.8 million, or 37%, to $122.2 million for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021, primarily reflecting higher net management and advisory fees, partially offset by higher cash based compensation, general, administrative and other expenses and equity based compensation. Year Ended March 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2020 FRE increased $27.9 million, or 45%, to $89.5 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020, primarily reflecting higher net management and advisory fees and lower general, administrative and other expenses, partially offset by higher cash based compensation. Reconciliation of GAAP to Non GAAP Financial Measures The table below shows a reconciliation of revenues to adjusted revenues. Year Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 Total revenues $ 1,365,525 $ 787,716 $ 446,611 Unrealized carried interest allocations (585,851) (433,827) (161,819) Deferred incentive fees 1,438 4,700 799 Legacy Greenspring carried interest allocations (187,106) Adjusted revenues $ 594,006 $ 358,589 $ 285,591 98 Table of Contents The table below shows a reconciliation of income before income tax to ANI and FRE. Year Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 Income before income tax $ 512,581 $ 337,849 $ 148,740 Net income attributable to non controlling interests in subsidiaries (1) (28,100) (23,952) (12,052) Net income attributable to non controlling interests in legacy Greenspring entities (32,586) Unrealized carried interest allocations (585,851) (433,827) (161,819) Unrealized performance fee related compensation 312,903 215,508 82,701 Unrealized investment income (17,661) (11,066) (2,873) Deferred incentive fees 1,438 4,700 799 Equity based compensation (2) 13,174 7,848 1,915 Amortization of intangibles 24,497 3,339 5,028 Write off of unamortized deferred financing costs 3,526 Tax Receivable Agreements adjustments through earnings (3,560) Non core items (3) 26,260 6,342 4,419 Pre tax adjusted net income 223,095 110,267 66,858 Income taxes (4) (50,152) (24,865) (16,715) Adjusted net income 172,943 85,402 50,143 Income taxes (4) 50,152 24,865 16,715 Realized carried interest allocations (200,718) (62,953) (46,177) Realized performance fee related compensation 91,208 30,532 26,958 Realized investment income (8,499) (5,341) (4,053) Incentive fees (11,593) (5,474) (3,410) Deferred incentive fees (1,438) (4,700) (799) Interest income (337) (413) (1,436) Interest expense 1,113 7,360 10,211 Other (income) loss (5) 1,311 (220) 1,355 Write off of unamortized deferred financing costs (3,526) Net income attributable to non controlling interests in subsidiaries (1) 28,100 23,952 12,052 Fee related earnings $ 122,242 $ 89,484 $ 61,559 (1) Reflects the portion of pre tax adjusted net income of our subsidiaries attributable to non controlling interests. (2) Reflects equity based compensation for awards granted prior to and in connection with the IPO. (3) Includes compensation paid to certain equity holders as part of an acquisition earn out ($1.4 million in fiscal 2020), transaction costs ($14.2 million in fiscal 2022, $0.4 million in fiscal 2021, and $1.2 million in fiscal 2020), severance costs ($1.6 million in fiscal 2022, $4.2 million in fiscal 2021, and $1.0 million in fiscal 2020), loss on change in fair value for contingent consideration obligation ($9.6 million in fiscal 2022 and $1.6 million in fiscal 2021), compensation paid to certain employees as part of an acquisition earn out ($0.8 million in fiscal 2022) and other non core operating income and expenses. 99 Table of Contents (4) Represents corporate income taxes at a blended statutory rate of 22.5%, 22.6% and 25.0% applied to pre tax adjusted net income for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The 22.5% rate for fiscal 2022 is based on a federal statutory rate of 21.0% and a combined state, local and foreign rate net of federal benefits of 1.5%. The 22.6% rate for fiscal 2021 is based on a federal statutory rate of 21.0% and a combined state, local and foreign rate net of federal benefits of 1.6%. As we were not subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes prior to the Reorganization and IPO, a blended statutory rate of 25.0% has been applied to fiscal 2020 for comparability purposes. The decline in the blended statutory rate for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was due to updates in our state apportionment based on our most recently filed tax returns and is our best estimate of our blended statutory tax rate moving forward. The decline in the blended statutory rate for fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 was due to updates in our state apportionment. (5) Reflects other income (loss) net of amounts for Tax Receivable Agreements adjustments recognized as other income (loss) ($3.6 million in fiscal 2022). Investment Performance The following tables present information relating to the performance of all the investments that StepStone has recommended and subsequently tracked across asset classes and investment strategies, except as set forth in greater detail below. The data for these investments is generally presented from the inception date of each strategy and asset class through December 31, 2021 and have not been adjusted to reflect acquisitions or disposals of investments subsequent to that date. The historical results of our investments are not indicative of future results to be expected of existing or new investment funds, and are not a proxy for the performance of our Class A common stock, including because: market conditions and investment opportunities may differ from those in the past; the performance of our funds is largely based on the NAV (as defined below) of the funds investments, including unrealized gains, which may never be realized; newly established funds may generate lower investment returns during the period that they initially deploy their capital; changes in the global tax and regulatory environment may impact both the investment preferences of our clients and the financing strategies employed by businesses in which particular funds invest, which may reduce the overall capital available for investment and the availability of suitable investments, thereby reducing investment returns in the future; competition for investment opportunities, resulting from the increasing amount of capital invested in private markets alternatives, may increase the cost and reduce the availability of suitable investments, thereby reducing investment returns in the future; and the industries and businesses in which particular funds invest will vary. Historical and future returns of investments included in our track record are not directly correlated to potential returns on our Class A common stock. For the purposes of the following tables: Invested capital refers to the total amount of all investments made by a fund, including commitment reducing and non commitment reducing capital calls; NAV refers to the estimated fair value of unrealized investments plus any net assets or liabilities associated with the investment as of December 31, 2021; 100 Table of Contents Multiple of Invested Capital refers to (a) the sum of Realized Distributions from underlying investments to the fund plus the funds NAV, divided by (b) Cumulative Invested Capital. Multiple of Invested Capital is presented net of management fees, carried interest and expenses charged by underlying fund managers, but gross of StepStones management fees, performance fees and expenses; IRR refers to the annualized internal rate of return for all investments within the relevant investment strategy on an inception to date basis as of December 31, 2021 (except as noted otherwise below), based on contributions, distributions and unrealized value; Gross IRR refers to IRR net of management fees, performance fees and expenses charged by the underlying fund managers, but gross of StepStones management fees, performance fees and expenses; Net IRR refers to IRR net of fees and expenses charged by both the underlying fund managers and StepStone; MSCI ACWI Direct Alpha refers to the MSCI All Country World Index, calculated on a Public Market Equivalent Plus basis, the benchmark index used for comparison below. The MSCI All Country World Index is a free float adjusted market capitalization weighted index of over 2,900 world stocks that is designed to measure the equity market performance of developed and emerging markets. We believe the MSCI All Country World Index is commonly used by private markets investors to evaluate performance. The Direct Alpha calculation methodology allows private markets investment performance to be evaluated against a public index by compounding capital invested, capital distributed and net asset values to a single point in time in the benchmarks life, removing fluctuations of the public index and leaving only the non market return above/below the index; and Net TVM refers to the total value to paid in capital or invested capital expressed as a multiple, and is calculated as distributions plus unrealized valuations divided by invested capital (including all capitalized costs). StepStone Performance Summary by Investment Strategy (1),(2) (in billions except percentages and multiples) Strategy (3) Committed Capital Cumulative Invested Capital Realized Distributions NAV Total Multiple of Invested Capital Gross IRR Net IRR (4) Gross IRR versus Benchmark (5) Primaries $ 217.9 $ 147.0 $ 94.4 $ 125.7 $ 220.1 1.5x 13.7 % 13.4 % 2.3 % Secondaries 12.5 9.8 6.1 9.7 15.8 1.6x 24.5 % 20.5 % 10.6 % Co investments 27.3 24.9 10.4 32.2 42.6 1.7x 21.8 % 19.3 % 6.7 % Total $ 257.7 $ 181.7 $ 110.9 $ 167.6 $ 278.5 1.5x 14.8 % 14.2 % 3.1 % (1) Performance data shown in the table above is on an inception to date basis as of December 31, 2021. Overall performance includes all investments StepStone recommends and subsequently tracks, including advisory co investments and infrastructure investments made prior to January 1, 2015, the performance summary of Courtland, for which the track record dates back to September 1994. Overall performance excludes (i) client direct investments, (ii) investments for which StepStone does not provide monitoring and reporting services to the client that made the investment, (iii) syndicated loan portfolio totaling $0.6 billion, (iv) investments made by legacy private equity acquired businesses, and (v) Greenspring investments until data integration is completed. USD returns for StepStone recommended investments are calculated on a Constant Currency Adjusted USD reporting basis converting non USD investment cash flows and NAVs to USD using the foreign currency exchange rate corresponding to each clients first cash flow date. 101 Table of Contents (2) Investments of former clients are included in performance summary past the client termination date until such time as StepStone stops receiving current investment data (quarterly valuations and cash flows) for the investment. At that point, StepStone will then liquidate the fund by entering a distribution amount equal to the last reported NAV, thus ending its contribution to the track record as of that date. Historical performance contribution will be maintained up until the liquidation date. (3) Inception date reflects date of the first investment: September 1994 for primaries, May 2009 for secondaries and April 2008 for co investments. (4) Net IRRs are presented solely for illustrative purposes and do not represent actual returns received by any investor in any of the StepStone Funds represented above. StepStone fees and expenses are based on the following assumptions (management fees represent an annual rate): i. Primaries: 25 basis points of net invested capital for management fees, 5 basis points of capital commitments for fund expenses, and 1 basis point of capital commitments drawn down in the first cash flow quarter for organizational costs. ii. Secondaries: 125 basis points (60 basis points for Infrastructure) on capital commitments in years 1 through 4 for management fee. In year 5, management fees step down to 90% of the previous years fee. Secondaries also include 5 basis points of capital commitments for fund expenses and 1 basis point of capital commitments drawn down in the first cash flow quarter for organizational costs. Secondaries also include 12.5% of paid and unrealized carry (15.0% of paid and unrealized carry for Real Estate), with an 8% preferred return hurdle. iii. Co investments: 100 basis points on net committed capital for management fees, 5 basis points of capital commitments for fund expenses, and 1 basis point of capital commitments drawn down in the first cash flow quarter for organizational costs. Co investments also include 10.0% of paid and unrealized carry (15.0% of paid and unrealized carry for Real Estate), with an 8% preferred return hurdle. iv. Investment returns reflect NAV data for underlying investments as of December 31, 2021, as reported by underlying managers up to 115 days following December 31, 2021. For investment returns where NAV data is not available by 115 days following December 31, 2021, such NAVs are adjusted for cash activity following the last available reported NAV. (5) Reflects outperformance of investments as compared to the MSCI ACWI Total Return using the Direct Alpha public market equivalent method. StepStone Performance Summary by Asset Class PRIVATE EQUITY REAL ESTATE INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE DEBT INVESTMENT STRATEGY (1,3) NET IRR (2) NET TVM (2) INVESTMENT STRATEGY (3,4) NET IRR (2) NET TVM (2) INVESTMENT STRATEGY (3,5) NET IRR (2) INVESTMENT STRATEGY (3,7) IRR (7) Primaries 19.7% 1.7x Core/Core+ fund investments 9.0% 1.5x Primaries 11.6% Direct lending (Gross) (8) 7.5% Secondaries 21.5% 1.6x Value add/opportunistic fund investments 10.4% 1.4x Secondaries 14.1% Distressed debt (Gross) (8) 10.7% Co investments 25.1% 1.9x Real estate debt fund investments 6.4% 1.2x Co investments (6) 8.8% Other (Gross) (8,9) 9.8% Value add/opportunistic secondaries & co investments 16.9% 1.3x Private debt gross track record (8) 8.7% Private debt net track record 7.9% (1) Private Equity includes 1,330 investments totaling $126.1 billion of capital commitments and excludes (i) two advisory co investments and 156 client directed investments, totaling $100.0 million and $19.6 billion, respectively, of capital commitments, (ii) investments for which StepStone does not provide monitoring and reporting services to the client that made the investment, and (iii) Greenspring investments until the data integration is completed. Investment returns are calculated on a constant currency adjusted reporting basis converting non USD investment cash flows and NAVs to USD using the foreign currency exchange rate corresponding to each clients first cash flow date. (2) Net IRR and Net TVM are presented solely for illustrative purposes and do not represent actual returns received by any investor in any of the StepStone Funds represented above. StepStone fees and expenses are based on the following assumptions (management fees represent an annual rate): 102 Table of Contents i. Primaries: 25 basis points of net invested capital for management fees, 5 basis points of capital commitments for fund expenses, and 1 basis point of capital commitments drawn down in the first cash flow quarter for organizational costs. ii. Secondaries: 125 basis points (60 basis points for Infrastructure) on capital commitments in years 1 through 4 for management fee. In year 5, management fees step down to 90% of the previous years fee. Secondaries also include 5 basis points of capital commitments for fund expenses and 1 basis point of capital commitments drawn down in the first cash flow quarter for organizational costs. Secondaries also include 12.5% of paid and unrealized carry (15.0% of paid and unrealized carry for Real Estate), with an 8% preferred return hurdle. iii. Co investments: 100 basis points on net committed capital for management fees, 5 basis points of capital commitments for fund expenses, and 1 basis point of capital commitments drawn down in the first cash flow quarter for organizational costs. Co investments also include 10.0% of paid and unrealized carry (15.0% of paid and unrealized carry for Real Estate), with an 8% preferred return hurdle. Net IRR and Net TVM for certain investments may have been impacted by StepStones or the underlying fund managers use of subscription backed credit facilities by such vehicles. Reinvested/recycled amounts increase contributed capital. Investment returns reflect NAV data for underlying investments as of December 31, 2021, as reported by underlying managers up to 115 days following December 31, 2021. For investment returns where NAV data is not available by 115 days following December 31, 2021, such NAVs are adjusted for cash activity following the last available reported NAV. (3) Investments of former clients are included in performance summary past the client termination date until such time as StepStone stops receiving current investment data (quarterly valuations and cash flows) for the investment. At that point, StepStone will then liquidate the fund by entering a distribution amount equal to the last reported NAV, thus ending its contribution to the track record as of that date. Historical performance contribution will be maintained up until the liquidation date. (4) Real Estate includes 432 investments totaling $63.5 billion of capital commitments and excludes (i) 54 client directed investments, totaling $8.0 billion of capital commitments, (ii) eight secondary core/core+ investments, totaling $687.6 million, (iii) four advisory fund investments totaling $463.6 million, and (iv) investments for which StepStone does not provide monitoring and reporting services to the client that made the investment. Investment returns are calculated on a constant currency adjusted reporting basis converting non USD investment cash flows and NAVs to USD using the foreign currency exchange rate corresponding to each clients first cash flow date. Includes the discretionary track record of Courtland Partners, Ltd., which StepStone acquired on April 1, 2018 (the Courtland acquisition). (5) Infrastructure includes 182 investments totaling $36.3 billion of capital commitments and excludes (i) approximately 11 infrastructure investments made by the Partnership prior to the formation of the Infrastructure subsidiary in 2013 or made prior to the Courtland acquisition, and 16 client directed investments, totaling $501.9 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, of capital commitments, and (ii) investments for which StepStone does not provide monitoring and reporting services to the client that made the investment. Investment returns are calculated on a constant currency adjusted reporting basis converting non USD investment cash flows and NAVs to USD using the foreign currency exchange rate corresponding to each clients first cash flow date. (6) Includes asset management investments. (7) Private Debt includes 686 investments totaling $31.9 billion of capital commitments and excludes (i) 30 client directed investments, totaling $2.4 billion of capital commitments, and (ii) investments for which StepStone does not provide monitoring and reporting services to the client that made the investment. Investment returns are calculated on a constant currency adjusted reporting basis converting non USD investment cash flows and NAVs to USD using the foreign currency exchange rate corresponding to each clients first cash flow date. IRR is presented solely for illustrative purposes and does not represent actual returns received by any investor in any of the StepStone Funds represented above. StepStone fees and expenses are based on the following assumptions (management fees represent an annual rate): Private Debt fund investments include 65 basis points on the quarterly NAV for management fee. Net IRR for certain investments may have been impacted by StepStones or the underlying fund managers use of subscription backed credit facilities by such vehicles. Reinvested/recycled amounts increase contributed capital. Investment returns reflect NAV data for underlying investments as of December 31, 2021, as reported by underlying managers up to 115 days following December 31, 2021. For investment returns where NAV data is not available by 115 days following December 31, 2021, such NAVs are adjusted for cash activity following the last available reported NAV. (8) Subset performance is presented net of fees and expenses charged by the underlying fund manager only (performance results do not reflect StepStone fees and expenses). 103 Table of Contents (9) Other includes mezzanine debt, infrastructure debt, collateralized loan obligations, private performing debt, senior/enhanced senior debt, fund of funds, leasing, regulatory capital, trade finance and intellectual property/royalty. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources and Uses of Liquidity We generate cash primarily from management and advisory fees and realized carried interest allocations. We have historically managed our liquidity and capital resource needs through (a) cash generated from our operating activities, (b) realizations from investment activities, (c) borrowings, interest payments and repayments under credit agreements and other borrowing arrangements, and (d) funding capital commitments to our funds, and funding our growth initiatives, including capital expenditures and acquisitions to expand into new businesses. As of March 31, 2022, we had $117.4 million of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and $1,587.6 million of investments in StepStone Funds, including $1,480.5 million of accrued carried interest allocations, against $62.9 million in debt obligations, net of debt issuance costs, and $770.0 million in accrued carried interest related compensation payable. Ongoing sources of cash include (a) management and advisory fees, which are collected monthly or quarterly, (b) carried interest allocations and incentive fees, which are volatile and largely unpredictable as to amount and timing; and (c) distributions from our investments in the StepStone Funds. We use cash flow from operations and distributions from our investments in the StepStone Funds to pay compensation and related expenses, general and administrative expenses, income taxes, debt service, capital expenditures, dividends to our stockholders and distributions to holders of Partnership units, and to make investments in the StepStone Funds. We believe we will have sufficient cash to meet our obligations for the next 12 months. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows attributable to operating, investing and financing activities: Year Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 214,281 $ 149,299 $ 65,930 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (210,241) (11,166) 35,809 Net cash used in financing activities (70,439) (45,306) (52,170) Effect of exchange rate changes (15) 1,097 (252) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (66,414) $ 93,924 $ 49,317 Operating Activities Operating activities provided $214.3 million, $149.3 million and $65.9 million of cash for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. For fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, these amounts primarily consisted of the following: net income, after adjustments for non cash items (including unrealized carried interest allocations, unrealized performance fee related compensation, unrealized investment income and acquisition related contingent consideration), of $222.9 million, $120.0 million and $72.3 million; and net change in operating assets and liabilities of $(8.6) million, $29.3 million and $(6.4) million. 104 Table of Contents Investing Activities Investing activities provided (used) $(210.2) million, $(11.2) million and $35.8 million of cash for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and primarily consisted of the following amounts: net contributions to investments of $15.1 million, $9.9 million and $7.0 million; net contributions to investments in legacy Greenspring entities of $11.6 million, $0 million and $0 million; purchases of fixed assets of $2.1 million, $1.3 million and $0.8 million; net sales and maturities of marketable securities of $0 million, $0 million and $43.7 million; and cash payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $181.5 million, $0 million and $0 million. Financing Activities Financing activities used $70.4 million, $45.3 million and $52.2 million for fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and primarily consisted of the following: sale of non controlling interests of $0 million, $3.3 million and $110.8 million; proceeds from capital contributions from non controlling interests $0.1 million, $2.8 million and $0 million; proceeds from IPO, net of underwriting discounts of $0 million, $337.8 million and $0 million; net borrowings on revolving credit facility of $65.0 million, $0 million and $0 million; payment of deferred financing costs of $2.4 million, $0 million and $0 million; purchase of non controlling interests of $3.0 million, $131.3 million and $107.2 million; payment of deferred offering costs of $1.7 million, $10.1 million and $0 million; payments on prior term loan of $0 million, $147.0 million and $1.5 million; distributions to non controlling interests of $107.5 million, $97.7 million and $52.9 million; proceeds from capital contributions to legacy Greenspring entities of $15.1 million, $0 million and $0 million; distributions to non controlling interests in legacy Greenspring entities of $11.3 million, $0 million and $0 million; dividends paid to common stockholders of $23.9 million, $2.0 million and $0 million; and payments to related parties under the Tax Receivable Agreements of $0.8 million, $0 million and $0 million. 105 Table of Contents Revolving Credit Facility In September 2021, we entered into the Credit Agreement in connection with the Greenspring acquisition. The Credit Agreement was arranged by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and provides for a $225.0 million multicurrency Revolver with a five year maturity. As of March 31, 2022, we had $62.9 million outstanding on the Revolver, net of debt issuance costs. Borrowings under the Revolver bear interest at a variable rate per annum. We may designate each borrowing as (i) in the case of any borrowing in U.S. dollars, a base rate loan or a LIBOR rate loan, (ii) in the case of any borrowing denominated in Euros, a EURIBOR rate loan, (iii) in the case of any borrowing denominated in British Pounds Sterling, a Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA) loan, (iv) in the case of any borrowing denominated in Swiss Francs, a Swiss Average Rate Overnight (SARON) loan, and (v) in the case of any borrowing denominated in Australian dollars, an AUD rate loan. Borrowings bear interest equal to (i) in the case of base rate loans, 1.00% plus the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate, (b) the New York Federal Reserve Bank Rate plus 0.50% and (c) the 1 month LIBOR, multiplied by the Statutory Reserve Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement), plus 1.00%, (ii) in the case of a LIBOR rate loan, the LIBOR rate multiplied by the Statutory Reserve Rate plus 2.00%, (iii) in the case of a EURIBOR rate loan, the EURIBOR rate multiplied by the Statutory Reserve Rate plus 2.00%, (iv) in the case of a SONIA loan, the Sterling Overnight Index Average plus 2.03%, (v) in the case of a SARON loan, the Swiss Average Rate Overnight plus 2.00%, and (vi) in the case of an AUD rate loan, the AUD Screen Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) multiplied by the Statutory Reserve Rate plus 2.20%. The interest rate in effect for the Revolver as of March 31, 2022 was 2.50%. Borrowings under the Revolver may be repaid at any time during the term of the Credit Agreement and, subject to certain terms and conditions, may be reborrowed prior to the maturity date. Any outstanding principal amounts, together with any accrued interest thereon, shall be due and payable on the maturity date. The maturity date for the Revolver is September 20, 2026. The Revolver bears a fee on undrawn commitments equal to 0.25% per annum if total utilization of revolving commitments is equal to or greater than 50% and 0.35% per annum if total utilization of revolving commitments is less than 50%. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, certain of our assets serve as pledged collateral. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains covenants that, among other things: limit our ability to incur indebtedness; create, incur or allow liens; transfer or dispose of assets; merge with other companies; make certain investments; pay dividends or make distributions; engage in new or different lines of business; and engage in transactions with affiliates. The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants requiring us to maintain a total net leverage ratio, and a minimum total of fee earning assets under management beginning with the quarter ending December 31, 2021. As of March 31, 2022, we were in compliance with the total net leverage ratio and minimum fee earning assets under management covenants. We can use available funding capacity under the Revolver to satisfy letters of credit in amounts up to $10.0 million. Amounts used to satisfy the letters of credit reduce the available capacity under the Revolver. As of March 31, 2022, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $2.9 million. 106 Table of Contents Equity Transactions Equity Transactions in Connection with and Prior to the Reorganization and IPO In August 2019, we completed a series of transactions resulting in the unitization of our equity and the combination of certain classes of our equity to facilitate the sale of newly issued equity interests in us to certain institutional investors (the 2019 Transaction). We received approximately $110.8 million in net proceeds from the sale of equity to institutional investors and used all of the proceeds to repurchase an equal number of equity interests from certain of our existing equity holders. In addition, we repurchased additional Class D partnership interests from a former employee for $2.3 million, which will be paid to the former employee at such time as carried interest allocations are realized by us. In connection with the 2019 Transaction, the previously existing Class A1, Class B, Class C and Class D partnership units were canceled and combined with and into the existing Class A partnership interests of the Company as a single class with equal value (without substantive changes to economic rights associated therewith), with each partner participating ratably in all distributions, including carried interest. In June 2020, StepStone Group Real Assets LP (SRA) completed a transaction to repurchase partnership interests in SRA from a former partner for approximately $3.3 million, and subsequently sold an equal number of partnership interests to certain employees of SRA for approximately $3.3 million, resulting in no net proceeds to SRA. In connection with the consummation of the IPO, we issued new partnership interests to certain StepStone professionals in SRA in exchange for their partnership interests in SRA, which increased our interest in SRA to approximately 49% and decreased the interest of the StepStone professionals in SRA to approximately 51%. Equity Transactions Subsequent to the IPO In March 2021, we conducted an underwritten public offering of 9,200,000 shares of Class A common stock, including 1,200,000 shares pursuant to the full exercise of the underwriters option to purchase additional shares, sold by selling stockholders at a public offering price of $29.50 per share. In connection with the offering, we issued 9,200,000 shares of Class A common stock to the selling stockholders in exchange for 9,200,000 Class B units. A corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock were automatically redeemed at par value and canceled in connection with such exchange and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling stockholders. In June 2021, we issued 1,898,438 shares of Class A common stock to certain limited partners of the Partnership in exchange for 1,898,438 Class B units. A corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock were automatically redeemed at par value and canceled in connection with such exchange and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. In September 2021, we issued 12,686,756 shares of Class A common stock and 3,071,519 Class C units of the Partnership as partial consideration for the Greenspring acquisition. In connection with the transaction, we amended the limited partnership agreement to create a new Class C limited partnership interest and admit the new limited partners that received Class C units as consideration for the Greenspring acquisition. The Class C limited partners of the Partnership became parties to the Exchanges Tax Receivables Agreement to allow for the exchange of Class C units to shares of Class A common stock of the Company on a one for one basis. In September 2021, we issued 2,087,281 shares of Class A common stock to certain limited partners of the Partnership in exchange for 2,087,281 Class B units. A corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock were automatically redeemed at par value and canceled in connection with such exchange and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. 107 Table of Contents In November 2021, we conducted an underwritten public offering of 4,500,000 shares of Class A common stock sold by selling stockholders at a public offering price of $51.83 per share. In connection with the offering, we issued 3,958,204 shares of Class A common stock to certain selling stockholders in exchange for 3,958,204 Class B units. A corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock were automatically redeemed at par value and canceled in connection with such exchange and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. We also issued 142,695 shares of Class A common stock to certain selling stockholders in exchange for 142,695 Class C units and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling stockholders. In December 2021, we issued 935,235 shares of Class A common stock to certain limited partners of the Partnership in exchange for 935,235 Class B units. A corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock were automatically redeemed at par value and canceled in connection with such exchange and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. In February 2022, the Partnership completed a transaction to repurchase partnership interests in SRA from a former partner for approximately $0.3 million, and subsequently sold an equal number of partnership interests to certain employees of SRA for approximately $0.3 million, resulting in no net proceeds to the Partnership. In March 2022, we issued 350,000 shares of Class A common stock to a limited partner of the Partnership in exchange for 350,000 Class B units. A corresponding number of shares of Class B common stock were automatically redeemed at par value and canceled in connection with such exchange and a corresponding number of Class A units of the Partnership were issued to us. Future Sources and Uses of Liquidity In the future, we may issue additional equity or debt with the objective of increasing our available capital. We believe that we will be able to continue to meet our current and long term liquidity and capital requirements through our cash flows from operating activities, existing cash and cash equivalents, and our ability to obtain future financing. Dividend and Distribution Policy On May 26, 2022, we announced a dividend of $0.20 per share of Class A common stock, payable on June 30, 2022 to holders of record as of the close of business on June 15, 2022. The following table presents information regarding quarterly dividends on Class A common shares for the periods indicated: 108 Table of Contents Quarterly Fiscal Period 1 Dividend Payment Date Dividend Per Share of Class A Common Stock First quarter N/A Second quarter N/A Third quarter N/A Fourth quarter March 12, 2021 $ 0.07 Total dividends paid in FY2021 $ 0.07 First quarter July 15, 2021 $ 0.07 Second quarter September 15, 2021 0.07 Third quarter December 15, 2021 0.15 Fourth quarter March 15, 2022 0.15 Total dividends paid in FY2022 $ 0.44 (1) Prior to the Companys IPO on September 16, 2020, it was a wholly owned subsidiary of the Partnership, had a single class of common stock and did not pay dividends. As such, there is no quarterly dividend information reported for the quarter ended September 30, 2020 or any periods prior. Dividends paid, as reported in this table, relate to the preceding quarterly period in which they were earned. We may pay additional dividends to holders of our Class A common stock in the future. The declaration and payment by us of any future dividends to Class A stockholders is at the sole discretion of our board of directors. Subject to funds being legally available, we will cause the Partnership to make pro rata distributions to its limited partners, including us, in amounts sufficient to make payment of applicable income and other taxes, to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements, and to make payment for corporate and other general expenses. Because our board of directors may determine to pay or not pay dividends to our Class A stockholders, our Class A stockholders may not necessarily receive dividend distributions relating to our excess distributions, even if the Partnership makes excess distributions to us. Tax Receivable Agreements We have entered into an Exchanges Tax Receivable Agreement with the Class B limited partners and Class C limited partners, and a Reorganization Tax Receivable Agreement with certain pre IPO institutional investors (collectively, the Tax Receivable Agreements). The Tax Receivable Agreements provide for payment by SSG to these partners and pre IPO institutional investors of the Partnership of 85% of the amount of the net cash tax savings, if any, that SSG realizes (or, under certain circumstances, is deemed to realize) as a result of increases in tax basis (and utilization of certain other tax benefits) resulting from (i) SSGs acquisition of such partners and institutional investors Partnership units and (ii) in the case of the Exchanges Tax Receivable Agreement, any payments SSG makes under the Exchanges Tax Receivable Agreement (including tax benefits related to imputed interest). SSG will retain the benefit of the remaining 15% of these net cash tax savings under both Tax Receivable Agreements. Capital Requirements of Regulated Entities We are required to maintain minimum net capital balances for regulatory purposes in the United States and certain non U.S. jurisdictions in which we do business. These net capital requirements are met by retaining cash and cash equivalents in those jurisdictions. As a result, we may be restricted in our ability to transfer cash between different operating entities and jurisdictions. As of March 31, 2022, we were required to maintain approximately $7.6 million in net capital at these subsidiaries and were in compliance with all regulatory minimum net capital requirements. 109 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments In the ordinary course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements that require future cash payments. The following table sets forth information regarding our anticipated future cash payments under our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2022: Total Less than 1 year Years 1 3 Years 3 5 Thereafter Operating lease obligations (1) $ 99,380 $ 10,454 $ 25,622 $ 22,438 $ 40,866 Contingent earn out payments (2) 28,025 521 27,504 Debt obligations (3) 65,000 65,000 Interest on debt obligations (4) 7,270 1,625 3,250 2,395 Capital commitments (5) 68,204 68,204 Capital commitments in legacy Greenspring funds (6) 40,510 40,510 Total $ 308,389 $ 121,314 $ 56,376 $ 89,833 $ 40,866 (1) We lease office space and certain office equipment under agreements that expire periodically through 2032. The table only includes guaranteed minimum lease payments under these agreements, including leases signed but not yet commenced at the period end, and does not project other lease related payments. (2) In September 2021, we completed the acquisition of 100% of Greenspring. The transaction agreement includes an earn out of up to $75 million that is payable in 2025 subject to the achievement of certain management fee revenue targets for calendar year 2024. Future cash payments represent the fair values as of March 31, 2022. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report for more information on contingent consideration liabilities. (3) Debt obligations presented in the table relate to the Revolver, which has a maturity date of September 20, 2026. The balance outstanding under the Revolver as of March 31, 2022 has been presented as an obligation payable in the years 3 5 column as there are no scheduled or required principal payments on the Revolver. (4) Interest on debt obligations consists of projected future interest payments for amounts drawn on the Revolver using interest rates in effect as of March 31, 2022 which has been calculated assuming no additional principal payments will be made and outstanding balance will be held until its final maturity date. These projected interest payments may differ in the future based on the balance outstanding on the Revolver, as well as changes in market interest rates. (5) Capital commitments represent our obligations to provide general partner capital funding to the StepStone Funds. These amounts are generally due on demand, and accordingly, have been presented as obligations payable in the less than 1 year column. Capital commitments are expected to be called over a period of several years. (6) In connection with the Greenspring acquisition, we, indirectly through our subsidiaries, became the sole and or managing member of certain entities, each of which is the general partner of an investment fund (legacy Greenspring general partner entities). We did not acquire any direct economic interests attributable to the legacy Greenspring general partner entities, including legacy Greenspring investments in funds and carried interest allocations. However, certain arrangements negotiated as part of the acquisition represent variable interests that could be significant. We determined that the legacy Greenspring general partner entities are VIEs and it is the primary beneficiary of each such entity because it has a controlling financial interest in each entity. As a result, we consolidate these entities. Capital commitments in legacy Greenspring funds represent our obligations to provide general partner capital funding in legacy Greenspring funds for which we do not hold any direct economic interests. These amounts are generally due on demand, and accordingly, have been presented as obligations payable in the less than 1 year column. Capital commitments are expected to be called over a period of several years. The payments that we are required to make under the Tax Receivable Agreements are expected to be substantial and are not reflected in the contractual obligations table set forth above as they are dependent upon future taxable income. 110 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements that would expose us to any liability or require us to fund losses or guarantee target returns to clients in our funds that are not reflected in our consolidated financial statements. See notes 4 and 16, respectively, to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report for information on variable interest entities and commitments and contingencies. Critical Accounting Policies We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In applying many of these accounting principles, we need to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in our consolidated financial statements. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. These assumptions, estimates and judgments, however, are both subjective and subject to change, and actual amounts may differ from our assumptions and estimates. If actual amounts are ultimately different from our estimates, the revisions are included in our results of operations for the period in which the actual amounts become known. We believe the following critical accounting policies could potentially produce materially different results if we were to change underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report for a summary of our significant accounting policies. Consolidation We consolidate all entities that we control through a majority voting interest or as the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity (VIE). We use, and expect to continue to use, a combination of our equity ownership, governance rights and other contractual arrangements to control operations of these entities. However, these arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over these operations as would wholly owning these entities. See note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report for information on variable interest entities. Under the VIE model, we are required to perform an analysis as to whether we have a variable interest in an entity and whether the entity is a VIE. In evaluating whether we hold a variable interest, we review all of our financial relationships to determine whether we are exposed to the risks and rewards created and distributed by an entity. We hold variable interests in certain operating subsidiaries not wholly owned by us and in the StepStone Funds in which we serve as the general partner or managing member. We also assess whether the fees charged to the StepStone Funds are customary and commensurate with the level of effort required to provide the services. We consider all economic interests, including indirect interests, to determine if a fee is considered a variable interest. We determined our fee arrangements with the StepStone Funds are not considered to be variable interests. If we have a variable interest in an entity, we further assess whether the entity is a VIE and, if so, whether we are the primary beneficiary. The assessment of whether an entity is a VIE requires an evaluation of qualitative factors and, where applicable, quantitative factors. These judgments include: (a) determining whether the entity has sufficient equity at risk, (b) evaluating whether the equity holders, as a group, lack the ability to make decisions that significantly affect the economic performance of the entity and (c) determining whether the entity is structured with disproportionate voting rights in relation to their equity interests. 111 Table of Contents For entities that are determined to be VIEs, we are required to consolidate those entities where we have concluded that we are the primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary is defined as the variable interest holder with (a) the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly affect the entitys economic performance and (b) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In evaluating whether we are the primary beneficiary, we evaluate our economic interests in the entity held either directly or indirectly by us. At each reporting date, we determine whether any reconsideration events have occurred that require us to revisit the primary beneficiary analysis, and we will consolidate or deconsolidate accordingly. We provide investment advisory services to the StepStone Funds, which have third party investors. Certain StepStone Funds are VIEs because they have not granted the third party investors substantive rights to terminate or remove the general partner or participating rights. We do not consolidate these StepStone Funds because we are not the primary beneficiary of those funds, primarily because our fee arrangements are considered customary and commensurate and thus not deemed to be variable interests, and we do not hold any other interests in those funds that are considered more than insignificant. We consolidate certain of our operating subsidiaries that are VIEs because we are the primary beneficiary. Revenues We recognize revenue in accordance with ASC 606. Revenue is recognized in a manner that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers and for an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The application of ASC 606 requires us to identify our contract(s) with a customer, identify the performance obligations in a contract, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract and recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. In determining the transaction price, variable consideration is included only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized would not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. We have elected to apply the variable consideration allocation exception for our fee arrangements with our customers. Management and Advisory Fees, Net We recognize management and advisory fee revenues when control of the promised services is transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those services. For asset management services and the arrangement of administrative services, we satisfy these performance obligations over time because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the services as they are performed. Advisory fees from contracts under which we do not have discretion over investment decisions are generally based on fixed amounts and typically billed quarterly. Management fees are reflected net of certain professional and administrative services and distribution and servicing fees paid to third parties for which we are acting as an agent. 112 Table of Contents Performance Fees We earn two types of performance fee revenues: incentive fees and carried interest allocations, as described below. Incentive fees are generally calculated as a percentage of the profits (up to 10%) earned in respect of certain accounts for which we are the investment adviser, subject to the achievement of minimum return levels or performance benchmarks. Incentive fees are a form of variable consideration and represent contractual fee arrangements in our contracts with our customers. Incentive fees are typically subject to reversal until the end of a defined performance period, as these fees are affected by changes in the fair value of the assets under management or advisement over such performance period. Moreover, incentive fees that are received prior to the end of the defined performance period are typically subject to clawback, net of tax. We recognize incentive fee revenue only when these amounts are realized and no longer subject to significant risk of reversal, which is typically at the end of a defined performance period and or upon expiration of the associated clawback period (i.e., crystallization). However, clawback terms for incentive fees received prior to crystallization only require the return of amounts on a net of tax basis. Accordingly, the tax related portion of incentive fees received in advance of crystallization is not subject to clawback and is therefore recognized as revenue immediately upon receipt. Incentive fees received in advance of crystallization that remain subject to clawback are recorded as deferred incentive fee revenue and included in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. Carried interest allocations include the allocation of performance based fees, commonly referred to as carried interest, to us from unaffiliated limited partners in certain StepStone Funds in which we hold an equity interest. We are entitled to a carried interest allocation (typically 5% to 15%) based on cumulative fund or account performance to date, irrespective of whether such amounts have been realized. These carried interest allocations are subject to the achievement of minimum return levels (typically 5% to 10%), in accordance with the terms set forth in each respective funds governing documents. We account for our investment balances in the StepStone Funds, including carried interest allocations, under the equity method of accounting because it is presumed to have significant influence as the general partner or managing member. Accordingly, carried interest allocations are not deemed to be within the scope of ASC 606. Legacy Greenspring carried interest allocations include the allocation of carried interest to legacy Greenspring general partner entities from limited partners in certain legacy Greenspring funds in which the legacy Greenspring general partner entities hold an equity interest. The legacy Greenspring general partner entities are entitled to a carried interest allocation (typically 5% to 20%) based on cumulative fund or account performance to date, irrespective of whether such amounts have been realized. We account for the investment balances in the legacy Greenspring funds, including carried interest allocations, under the equity method of accounting because it is presumed to have significant influence as the general partner or managing member. We do not hold any direct economic interests in the legacy Greenspring general partner entities and thus are not entitled to any carried interest allocation from the legacy funds. All of the carried interest allocations in respect of the legacy Greenspring funds are payable to employees who are considered affiliates to us and are therefore reflected as legacy Greenspring performance fee related compensation in the consolidated statements of income. Accordingly, legacy Greenspring carried interest allocations are not deemed to be within the scope of ASC 606. We recognize revenue attributable to carried interest allocations from a fund based on the amount that would be due to us pursuant to the funds governing documents, assuming the fund was liquidated based on the current fair value of its underlying investments as of that date. Accordingly, the amount recognized as carried interest allocation revenue reflects our share of the gains and losses of the associated funds underlying investments measured at their then fair values, relative to the fair values as of the end of the prior period. We record the amount of carried interest allocated to us as of each period end as accrued carried interest allocations receivable, which is included as a component of investments in the consolidated balance sheets. 113 Table of Contents Carried interest is generally realized when an underlying investment is profitably disposed of and the funds cumulative returns are in excess of the specific hurdle rates, as defined in the applicable governing documents. Carried interest is generally subject to reversal to the extent that the amount received to date exceeds the amount due to us based on cumulative results. As such, a liability is accrued for potential clawback obligations if amounts previously distributed to us would require repayment to a fund if such fund were to be liquidated based on the current fair value of their underlying investments as of the reporting date. Actual repayment obligations generally do not become realized until the end of a funds life. Fair Value Measurements GAAP establishes a hierarchical disclosure framework, which prioritizes and ranks the level of market price observability used in measuring financial instruments at fair value. Market price observability is affected by a number of factors, including the type of financial instrument, the characteristics specific to the financial instrument and the state of the marketplace including the existence and transparency of transactions between market participants. Financial instruments with readily available quoted prices in active markets generally will have a higher degree of market price observability and therefore a lesser degree of judgment is used in measuring their fair value. Financial instruments measured and reported at fair value are classified and disclosed based on the observability of inputs used in the determination of their fair values, as follows: Level I Pricing inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the measurement date. Level II Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the measurement date, and fair value is determined through the use of models or other valuation methodologies. The types of financial instruments classified in this category include less liquid securities traded in active markets and securities traded in other than active markets. Level III Pricing inputs are unobservable for the financial instruments and include situations where there is little, if any, market activity for the financial instrument. The inputs into the determination of fair value require significant management judgment or estimation. In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls has been determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and consideration of factors specific to the financial instrument. The availability of observable inputs can vary depending on the financial asset or liability and is affected by a wide variety of factors including, for example, the type of instrument, whether the instrument has recently been issued, whether the instrument is traded on an active exchange or in the secondary market, and current market conditions. To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are less observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. Accordingly, the degree of judgment exercised in determining fair value is greatest for financial instruments categorized in Level III. The variability and availability of the observable inputs affected by the factors described above may result in transfers between Levels I, II, and III. 114 Table of Contents We consider our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, fees and accounts receivable, accounts payable, investments, revolving credit facility and contingent consideration balances to be financial instruments. The carrying amounts of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, fees and accounts receivable and accounts payable equal or approximate their fair values due to their nature and or the relatively short period over which they are held. See notes 6 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional details regarding the fair value of our contingent consideration and revolving credit facility balances, respectively. Equity Based Compensation We account for grants of equity based awards, including restricted stock units (RSUs), to certain employees and directors at fair value as of the grant date. We recognize non cash compensation expense attributable to these grants on a straight line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. Expense related to grants of equity based awards is recognized as equity based compensation expense in the consolidated statements of income. The fair value of RSUs is determined by the closing stock price on the grant date. Forfeitures of equity based awards are recognized as they occur. See note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our accounting for equity based awards. Performance Fee Related Compensation A portion of the carried interest allocations we earn is awarded to employees and other carry participants in the form of award letters (carry awards). Carry awards to employees and other participants are accounted for as a component of compensation and benefits expense contemporaneously with our recognition of the related realized and unrealized carried interest allocation revenue and, until paid, is included in accrued carried interest related compensation in the consolidated balance sheets. Carried interest related compensation expense also includes the portion of net carried interest allocation revenue attributable to equity holders of our consolidated subsidiaries that are not 100% owned by us. Upon a reversal of carried interest allocation revenue, the related compensation expense, if any, is also reversed. Liabilities recognized for carried interest amounts due to affiliates are not paid until the related carried interest allocation revenue is realized. We record incentive fee compensation when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. The incentive fee compensation accrual is based on a number of factors, including the cumulative activity for the period and the distribution of the net proceeds in accordance with the applicable governing agreement. Income Taxes SSG is a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and therefore is subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes on its share of taxable income generated by the Partnership. The Partnership is treated as a pass through entity for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. As such, income generated by the Partnership flows through to its limited partners, including SSG, and is generally not subject to U.S. federal or state income tax at the Partnership level. The Partnerships non U.S. subsidiaries generally operate as corporate entities in non U.S. jurisdictions, with certain of these entities subject to non U.S. income taxes. Additionally, certain subsidiaries are subject to local jurisdiction taxes at the entity level, which are reflected within income tax expense in the consolidated statements of income. As a result, the Partnership does not record U.S. federal and state income taxes on income in the Partnership or its subsidiaries, except for certain local and foreign income taxes discussed above. Taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method of accounting. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, using tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period when the change is enacted. The principal items giving rise to temporary differences are certain basis differences resulting from exchanges of Partnership units. See Tax Receivable Agreements below. 115 Table of Contents Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on the amount, timing and character of our future taxable income. When evaluating the realizability of deferred tax assets, all evidence both positive and negative is considered. This evidence includes, but is not limited to, expectations regarding future earnings, future reversals of existing temporary tax differences and tax planning strategies. We are subject to the provisions of ASC Subtopic 740 10, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes . This standard establishes consistent thresholds as it relates to accounting for income taxes. It defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as more likely than not to be sustained by the relevant taxing authority and requires measurement of a tax position meeting the more likely than not criterion, based on the largest benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized. If upon performance of an assessment pursuant to this subtopic, management determines that uncertainties in tax positions exist that do not meet the minimum threshold for recognition of the related tax benefit, a liability is recorded in the consolidated financial statements. We recognize interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits as interest expense and general, administrative and other expenses, respectively, in the consolidated statements of income. See note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for more information. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining tax expense and in evaluating tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties under GAAP. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust our tax balances as new information becomes available. Tax Receivable Agreements The Tax Receivable Agreements provide for payment by SSG to the Class B limited partners, Class C limited partners and pre IPO institutional investors of the Partnership of 85% of the amount of the net cash tax savings, if any, that SSG realizes (or, under certain circumstances, is deemed to realize) as a result of increases in tax basis (and utilization of certain other tax benefits) resulting from (i) SSGs acquisition of such partners and institutional investors Partnership units and (ii) in the case of the Exchanges Tax Receivable Agreement, any payments SSG makes under the Exchanges Tax Receivable Agreement (including tax benefits related to imputed interest). SSG will retain the benefit of the remaining 15% of these net cash tax savings under both Tax Receivable Agreements. In connection with the Greenspring acquisition, the sellers receiving Class C units of the Partnership became parties to the Exchanges Tax Receivable Agreement. See notes 14 and 15 to our consolidated financial statements for more information. Recent Accounting Developments Information regarding recent accounting developments and their effects to us can be found in note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to a broad range of risks inherent in the financial markets in which we participate, including price risk, interest rate risk, access to and cost of financing risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and foreign exchange rate risk. Potentially negative effects of these risks may be mitigated to a certain extent by those aspects of our investment approach, investment strategies, fundraising practices or other business activities that are designed to benefit, either in relative or absolute terms, from periods of economic weakness, tighter credit markets or financial market dislocations. 116 Table of Contents Market Risk Our predominant exposure to market risk is related to our role as general partner or investment manager for our focused commingled funds and SMAs and the sensitivities to movements in the fair value of their investments, which may adversely affect our performance fee revenues and investment income. Our management fee and advisory fee revenue is only marginally affected by changes in investment values because our management fees are generally based on commitments or net invested capital and our advisory fees are fixed. As of March 31, 2022, NAV based management fees represented approximately 3% of total net management and advisory fees. We estimate that a 10% decline in market values of the investments held in our funds as of March 31, 2022 would result in an approximate $1.5 million decrease to annual management fees. The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities of our focused commingled funds and SMAs may fluctuate in response to changes in the fair value of a funds underlying investments, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. The effect of these risks is as follows: Incentive fees from our funds are not materially affected by changes in the fair value of unrealized investments because they are based on realized gains and subject to achievement of performance criteria rather than on the fair value of the funds assets prior to realization. As of March 31, 2022, we had $14.2 million of deferred incentive fee revenue recorded in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. We earn carried interest allocation revenue from certain of the StepStone Funds based on cumulative fund performance to date, subject to specified performance criteria. Our carried interest allocation is affected by changes in market factors. However, the degree of impact will vary depending on several factors, including but not limited to (i) the performance criteria for each individual fund in relation to how that funds results of operations are affected by changes in market factors; (ii) whether such performance criteria are annual or over the life of the fund; (iii) to the extent applicable, the previous performance of each fund in relation to its performance criteria; and (iv) whether each funds performance related distributions are subject to contingent repayment. As a result, the impact of changes in market factors on carried interest allocation revenue will vary widely from fund to fund. An overall decrease of 10% in the general equity markets would not necessarily drive the same impact on our funds valuations, as many of our investments in our funds are illiquid and do not trade on any exchange. Additionally, as a large percentage of our carried interest allocation revenues are paid to employees as carried interest related compensation, the overall net impact to our income would be mitigated by lower compensation payments. As of March 31, 2022, the maximum amount of carried interest allocations (excluding legacy Greenspring carried interest allocations) subject to contingent repayment was an estimated $204.8 million, net of tax, assuming the fair value of all investments was zero, a possibility that we view as remote. Investment income changes in relation to realized and unrealized gains and losses of the underlying investments in our funds in which we have a general partner commitment. Based on investments (excluding legacy Greenspring investments in funds) held as of March 31, 2022, we estimate that a 10% decline in fair value of the investments would result in a $10.7 million decrease in the amount of income. Exchange Rate Risk Our business is affected by movements in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and non U.S. dollar currencies in respect of revenues and expenses of our foreign offices that are denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies and cash and other balances we hold in non functional currencies. The amount of revenues and expenses attributable to our foreign offices is not material in relation to our U.S. offices. Therefore, changes in exchange rates are not expected to materially affect our consolidated financial statements. 117 Table of Contents Certain of our focused commingled funds and SMAs hold investments denominated in non U.S. dollar currencies that may be affected by movements in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, which could affect investment performance. The currency exposure related to investments in foreign currency assets is limited to our general partner interest, which is typically no more than 1% of total capital commitments. Changes in exchange rates are not expected to materially affect our consolidated financial statements. Interest Rate Risk As of March 31, 2022, we had $65.0 million in borrowings outstanding under our Revolver. The Revolver accrues interest at a variable rate. As of March 31, 2022, we estimate that interest expense would increase by $0.7 million on an annualized basis as a result of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. Based on the $117.4 million of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash as of March 31, 2022, we estimate that interest income would increase by $1.2 million on an annualized basis as a result of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. Credit Risk We are party to agreements providing for various financial services and transactions that contain an element of risk in the event that the counterparties are unable to meet the terms of such agreements. In such agreements, we depend on the respective counterparty to make payment or otherwise perform. We generally endeavor to minimize our risk of exposure by limiting the counterparties with which we enter into financial transactions to reputable financial institutions. In other circumstances, availability of financing from financial institutions may be uncertain due to market events, and we may not be able to access these financing markets. 118 Table of Contents 