ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements and the notes related thereto which are included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth under Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on December 10, 2019 for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or other similar Business Combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Securities, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our initial Business Combination plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to raise capital or to complete our initial Business Combination will be successful. Recent Developments On December 10, 2020, we entered into the Business Combination Agreement with Innoviz, Merger Sub, Perception and Antara. Pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, and subject to shareholder approval, Merger Sub will merge with and into our company, with our company surviving the merger. As a result of the Merger, and upon consummation of the Transactions, we will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Innoviz, with our stockholders becoming securityholders of Innoviz. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from December 10, 2019 (inception) through December 31, 2020 were organizational activities and those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering identifying a target for our Business Combination, and activities in connection with the proposed acquisition of Innoviz. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we had a net loss of $1,034,535, which consists of operating costs of $1,134,618 offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $94,642 and an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $5,441. For the period from December 10, 2019 (inception) through December 31, 2019, we had net loss of $348, which consisted of operating costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources On May 5, 2020, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 15,000,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $150,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 262,500 units (Private Placement Units) at a price of $10.00 per Private Placement Unit and the sale of 1,875,000 warrants (Private Placement Warrants and together with the Private Placement Units, the Private Placement Securities) at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant in a private placement, generating gross proceeds of $4,500,000. 33 Following the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Securities, a total of $150,000,000 was placed in the Trust Account and we had $840,854 of cash held outside of the Trust Account, after payment of costs related to the Initial Public Offering, and available for working capital purposes. We incurred $8,737,297 in transaction costs, including $3,000,000 of underwriting fees, $5,250,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $487,297 of other offering costs. As of December 31, 2020, we had marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $150,100,083 (including approximately $100,000 of interest income) consisting of U.S. Treasury Bills with a maturity of 180 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through December 31, 2020, we did not withdraw any interest earned on the Trust Account to pay our taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $753,025. Net loss of $1,034,535 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $94,642, an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $5,441 and a deferred consulting fee payable of $72,000. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $309,593 of cash for operating activities. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less income taxes payable and deferred underwriting commissions) to complete our Business Combination. We may withdraw interest to pay taxes. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of December 31, 2020, we had cash of $248,330. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our officers, directors, Initial Stockholders or their affiliates may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $750,000 of such loans may be convertible into units and up to $750,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants identical to the Private Placement Units and Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $10.00 per unit and $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender, respectively. On March 1, 2021 and subsequent to year end, the Sponsor provided a $100,000 convertible non interest bearing, unsecured working capital loan to the Company. Liquidity and Going Concern We will need to raise additional capital through loans or additional investments from our Sponsor, stockholders, officers, directors, or third parties. Our officers, directors and Sponsor may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds, from time to time or at any time, in whatever amount they deem reasonable in their sole discretion, to meet our working capital needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of a potential transaction, and reducing overhead expenses. We cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern through November 5, 2021, the date that we will be required to cease all operations, except for the purpose of winding up, if a Business Combination is not consummated. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2020. 34 Contractual Obligations We do not have any long term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of certain of the Companys officers and directors a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support, provided to the Company. We began incurring these fees on April 30, 2020 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of a Business Combination and the Companys liquidation. We have agreed to pay an affiliate of Tim Saunders, our Chief Financial Officer, $10,000 per month for up to 6 months commencing on April 30, 2020 and accrue $12,000 per month for up to six months from April 30, 2020 and payable until, and only upon, the consummation of an initial Business Combination, for Mr. Saunders services as Chief Financial Officer. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of 3.5% of the gross proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, or $5,250,000. The deferred fee will be paid in cash upon the closing of a Business Combination from the amounts held in the Trust Account, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Class A Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our Class A common stock subject to possible conversion in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Shares of Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, Class A common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our balance sheets. Net Loss Per Common Share The Companys statement of operations includes a presentation of income (loss) per share for common shares subject to possible redemption in a manner similar to the two class method of income (loss) per share. Net income per common share, basic and diluted, for Common stock subject to possible redemption is calculated by dividing the proportionate share of income or loss on marketable securities held by the Trust Account, net of applicable franchise and income taxes, by the weighted average number of Common stock subject to possible redemption outstanding since original issuance. Net loss per share, basic and diluted, for non redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing the net loss, adjusted for income or loss on marketable securities attributable to Common stock subject to possible redemption, by the weighted average number of non redeemable common stock outstanding for the period. Non redeemable common stock includes Founder Shares and non redeemable shares of common stock as these shares do not have any redemption features. Non redeemable common stock participates in the income or loss on marketable securities based on non redeemable common stock shares proportionate interest. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Following the consummation of our Initial Public Offering, the net proceeds of our Initial Public Offering, including amounts in the Trust Account, have been invested in U.S. government treasury bills, notes or bonds with a maturity of 180 days or less or in certain money market funds that invest solely in US treasuries. Due to the short term nature of these investments, we believe there will be no associated material exposure to interest rate risk. 35 