Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business, includes forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. As a result of many factors, including those factors set forth in the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, our actual results could differ materially from the results described in, or implied by, the forward looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Overview Tango Therapeutics was founded with a clear mission: discover the next generation of precision medicines to help patients with cancer through addressing the specific genetic alterations that fuel the cancer. We leverage our state of the art target discovery platform to identify novel targets and develop new drugs directed at tumor suppressor gene loss in defined patient populations with high unmet medical need. Tumor suppressor gene loss remains a largely unaddressed target space specifically because these genetic events cannot be directly targeted. Our novel small molecules are designed to be selectively active in cancer cells with specific tumor suppressor gene loss, killing those cancer cells while sparing normal cells. We also are extending this target space beyond the classic, cell autonomous effects of tumor suppressor gene loss to include the discovery of novel targets that reverse the effects of tumor suppressor gene loss that prevent the immune system from recognizing and killing cancer cells (immune evasion). We believe our approach will provide the ability to deliver the deep, sustained target inhibition necessary to optimize tumor response and clinical benefit as a result of the unique ability of synthetic lethal targeting to spare normal cells. Our lead program, TNG908, is an MTA cooperative inhibitor of PRMT5 designed to work selectively in cancer cells with an MTAP deletion. MTAP deletion occurs in approximately 10% to 15% of all human tumors including glioblastoma, non small cell lung cancer and pancreatic cancer. In preclinical studies, TNG908 demonstrated 15 fold greater potency in MTAP deleted cancer cells versus normal cells and robust efficacy in vitro and in vivo. Initial pharmacodynamic (PD) data from the ongoing TNG908 Phase 1/2 study, released in May 2023, provided proof of mechanism of MTA cooperative PRMT5 inhibition, demonstrated by marked reduction of SDMA staining in MTAP deleted cancer cells versus normal tissue. Pre treatment and on treatment biopsies demonstrated dose dependent decreases in tumor SDMA staining with minimal or no decrease in normal tissue. The selective inhibition of PRMT5 in MTAP deleted cancer cells is essential to enable the therapeutic index needed for efficacy. Patients are actively being enrolled in the dose escalation portion of the Phase 1/2 clinical trial, including those with GBM, and to date, the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics (PK) profiles of TNG908 are favorable. Clinical data from the ongoing trial are expected in 2024. Given the large number of patients with MTAP deleted cancers who may benefit from a PRMT5 inhibitor, and the resulting potential business opportunity, we also developed a next generation PRMT5 inhibitor, TNG462, with increased potency, MTAP deletion selectivity, as well as longer target coverage. TNG462 is 45 times more potent in cells with an MTAP deletion than those without and induces deep tumor regressions in preclinical models of multiple cancer types which is expected to significantly increase the therapeutic index. The clinical development path for TNG462 is similar to TNG908, evaluating safety and efficacy in multiple tumor types in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial. GBM is excluded from the clinical trial as TNG462 is not expected to cross the blood brain barrier. The TNG462 IND was cleared by the FDA in the first quarter of 2023 and we announced the first patient in the Phase 1/2 clinical trial was dosed in July 2023. Patients are actively being enrolled in the dose escalation portion of the trial and to date, the preliminary safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics profiles of TNG462 are favorable. Discovered as part of our immune evasion target discovery platform, TNG260 is a first in class CoREST inhibitor, which reverses the immune evasion effect of STK11 loss of function mutations. STK11 loss of function mutations are present in approximately 15% of NSCLC, 15% of cervical cancers, 10% of carcinoma of unknown primary, 5% of breast cancers and 3% of pancreatic cancers. In syngeneic models with an STK11 mutation and an intact immune system, the combination of TNG260 with an anti PD 1 antibody resulted in sustained complete tumor regressions and the induction of immune memory against re implantation of tumors. These preclinical data demonstrate that TNG260 in combination with an anti PD 1 antibody is active in cancers with STK11 mutation, a setting where an anti PD 1 antibody alone is inactive. In the first quarter of 2023, the FDA cleared the TNG260 IND and we announced the first patient in the Phase 1/2 clinical trial was dosed in July 2023. Patients are actively being enrolled in the dose escalation portion of the trial and to date, the preliminary safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics profiles of TNG260 are favorable. The trial is evaluating the safety, pharmacokinetics, PD and efficacy of TNG260 in combination with pembrolizumab, with a one cycle single agent run in 91 phase to evaluate the safety and PK of TNG260, in patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors with an STK11 loss of function mutation. We believe that TNG260 could be among the first oncology molecules to leverage the benefits of genetically based patient selection (STK11 mutation) with checkpoint inhibitor therapy. We are developing TNG348, a novel allosteric inhibitor of USP1 for treatment of BRCA1, BRCA2 mutant and other HRD+ cancers. HRD+ cancers, including BRCA 1/2 mutations, represent approximately 50% of ovarian, 25% of breast, 10% of prostate and 5% of pancreatic cancers. In vivo preclinical studies for TNG348 have shown single agent efficacy and combination benefit with PARP inhibitors in BRCA1, BRCA2 mutant and other HRD+ cell line and patient derived xenografts, including those that are intrinsically resistant to PARP inhibition. These preclinical data further demonstrate that TNG348 is synergistic with PARP inhibition across a panel of human ovarian and breast cancer cell lines, including both PARP inhibitor sensitive and resistant lines. Clinically, we expect TNG348 to have single agent activity in PARP inhibitor nave and PARP inhibitor resistant BRCA1/2 mutant and other HRD+ cancers. Additionally, we expect TNG348 to synergize with PARP inhibitors in these acquired resistance settings, effectively restoring sensitivity to PARPi. The FDA cleared the TNG348 IND in the third quarter of 2023 and we announced the first patient in the Phase 1/2 clinical trial was dosed in January 2024. Patients are actively being enrolled in the dose escalation portion of the trial. Financial Overview Since the Companys inception, we have focused primarily on organizing and staffing our company, business planning, raising capital, discovering product candidates, securing related intellectual property, and conducting research and development activities for our programs. To date, we have funded our operations primarily through equity financings and from the proceeds received from our collaboration agreement with Gilead. Since inception, we have raised an aggregate of $166.9 million of gross proceeds from the sale of our preferred shares, $342.1 million in gross proceeds through the closing of the Business Combination and simultaneous financing transactions, $225.1 million through our collaboration with Gilead and $123.0 million of gross proceeds through (i) $80.0 million from the private placement of common shares and pre funded warrants to purchase common shares in August 2023 and (ii) $43.0 million from our "at the market" stock offering program in January 2024. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand as of December 31, 2023 of $336.9 million, in addition to $41.7 million in net proceeds from our "at the market" stock offering program in January 2024, will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements at least into late 2026. Since inception, we have incurred significant operating losses. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, our net losses were $101.7 million and $108.2 million, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of $371.3 million as of December 31, 2023. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing expenses and operating losses for the foreseeable future, as we advance our product candidates through preclinical and clinical development and seek regulatory approvals, manufacture drug product and drug supply, and maintain and expand our intellectual property portfolio. We also expect to hire additional personnel, pay for accounting, audit, legal, regulatory and consulting services, and pay costs associated with maintaining compliance with Nasdaq listing rules and the requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, director and officer liability insurance, investor and public relations activities and other expenses associated with operating as a public company. Our net losses may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year, depending on the timing of our preclinical studies, our clinical trials, and our expenditures on other research and development activities. We do not have any product candidates approved for sale and have not generated any revenue from product sales. We will not generate revenue from product sales unless and until we successfully complete clinical development and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, if ever. In addition, if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates and do not enter into a third party commercialization partnership, we expect to incur significant expenses related to developing our commercialization capability to support product sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution activities. As a result, we will need substantial additional funding to support our continuing operations and pursue our growth strategy. Until we can generate significant revenue from product sales, if ever, we expect to finance our operations through a combination of public or private equity offerings and debt financings or other sources, such as potential collaboration agreements, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. We may be unable to raise additional funds or enter into such other agreements or arrangements when needed on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital or enter into such agreements as, and when needed, could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical development, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of increased expenses or when or if we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Even if we are able to generate revenues from the sale of our therapies, we may not become profitable. If we fail to become profitable or are unable to sustain profitability on a continuing basis, then we may be unable to continue our operations at planned levels and be forced to reduce our operations. 92 Private Placement On August 10, 2023, we entered into a securities purchase agreement with a select group of institutional and accredited healthcare specialist investors for the private placement of 13,196,671 shares of common stock at a price of $5.15 per share and pre funded warrants to purchase 2,340,579 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $5.1499 per pre funded warrant, resulting in gross proceeds of $80.0 million. The pre funded warrants have an exercise price of $0.0001 per share of common stock, were immediately exercisable and will remain exercisable until exercised in full. After deducting expenses related to the private placement of $0.2 million, the net proceeds to us from the private placement were $79.8 million. The private placement closed on August 11, 2023. The securities purchase agreement also provided for the registration for resale of the shares of common stock. The shares were registered for resale pursuant to a registration statement filed on Form S 3 with the SEC on September 9, 2023. Based in part upon the representations of the investors in the securities purchase agreement, the offering and sale of the shares of common stock was made in reliance on the exemption afforded by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act and Rule 506 of Regulation D under the Securities Act and corresponding provisions of state securities or blue sky laws. At the Market Stock Offering In September 2022, we entered into a sales agreement (the Sales Agreement) with Jefferies LLC (Jefferies) which permitted the Company to sell from time to time, at its option, up to an aggregate of $100.0 million of shares of its common stock through Jefferies, as sales agent. Sales of the common stock, if any, will be made by methods deemed to be "at the market" stock offerings. The Sales Agreement will terminate upon the earliest of: (a) the sale of $100.0 million of shares of the Companys common stock or (b) the termination of the Sales Agreement by the Company or Jefferies. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had not sold any shares of common stock under this program. In January 2024, the Company sold 4,001,200 shares of common stock under this program for net proceeds of $41.7 million. Revenue To date, we have not recognized any revenue from product sales, and we do not expect to generate any revenue from the sale of products in the next several years. If our development efforts for our product candidates are successful and result in regulatory approval, or license agreements with third parties, we may generate revenue in the future from product sales. However, there can be no assurance as to when we will generate such revenue, if at all. Collaboration Agreements with Gilead Sciences In October 2018, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Gilead (2018 Gilead Agreement). Pursuant to the terms of the 2018 Gilead Agreement, we received an initial upfront payment of $50.0 million. The upfront payment was initially recorded as deferred revenue on our balance sheet and is recognized as revenue as or when the performance obligation under the contract is satisfied. In August 2020, the 2018 Gilead Agreement was expanded into a broader collaboration via an amended and restated research collaboration and license agreement (Gilead Agreement). Pursuant to the terms of the Gilead Agreement, we received an upfront payment of $125.0 million. Consistent with the treatment of the previously received upfront payment, this upfront payment was recorded as deferred revenue on our balance sheet and is recognized as revenue as or when the performance obligation under the contract is satisfied. In 2020 and 2021, Gilead elected to extend two programs for research extension fees totaling $24.0 million, which was added to our estimate of the transaction price to total $199.0 million. In June 2023, Gilead licensed a program for a $5.0 million fee, which was recognized as license revenue in the second quarter of 2023. As of December 31, 2023, $106.6 million has been recognized as collaboration revenue related to the upfront and research option extension payments from the Gilead agreements. During the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we recognized $31.5 million and $24.9 million, respectively, of collaboration revenue associated with the Gilead agreements based on performance completed during each period. 93 Refer to Note 2 and Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional information regarding our revenue recognition accounting policy and our collaboration agreement with Gilead. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs incurred for our drug discovery efforts and the development of our product candidates. We expense research and development costs as incurred, which include: employee related expenses, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, stock based compensation, other related costs for those employees involved in research and development efforts; external research and development expenses incurred under agreements with contract research organizations, or CROs, as well as consultants that conduct our preclinical studies and development services; costs related to manufacturing material for our preclinical and clinical studies; laboratory supplies and research materials; costs to fulfill our obligations under the collaboration with Gilead; costs related to compliance with regulatory requirements; and facilities, depreciation and other allocated expenses, which include direct and allocated expenses for rent, utilities and insurance. Costs for certain activities are recognized based on an evaluation of the progress to completion of specific tasks using data such as information provided to us by our vendors and analyzing the progress of our preclinical studies or other services performed. Significant judgment and estimates are made in determining the accrued expense balances at the end of any reporting period. Our direct external research and development expenses consist primarily of fees paid to CROs and outside consultants in connection with our preclinical and clinical development and manufacturing activities. Our direct external research and development expenses also include fees incurred under license agreements. We track these external research and development costs on a program by program basis once we have identified a product candidate. We do not allocate employee costs, costs associated with our target discovery efforts, laboratory supplies, and facilities, including depreciation or other indirect costs, to specific programs because these costs are deployed across multiple programs and, as such, are not separately classified. We characterize research and development costs incurred prior to the identification of a product candidate as discovery costs. We use internal resources primarily to conduct our research and discovery activities as well as for managing our preclinical, development and manufacturing activities. The following table summarizes our research and development expenses: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) TNG908 direct program expenses $ 10,851 $ 12,818 TNG462 direct program expenses 10,158 7,206 TNG260 direct program expenses 8,171 4,906 TNG348 direct program expenses 6,564 9,874 Discovery direct program expenses 23,426 28,763 Unallocated research and development expenses: Personnel related expenses 38,469 28,185 Facilities and other related expenses 17,559 14,154 Total research and development expenses $ 115,198 $ 105,906 The successful development of our product candidates is highly uncertain. We plan to substantially increase our research and development expenses for the foreseeable future as we continue the development of our product candidates and manufacturing processes and conduct discovery and research activities for our preclinical programs. We cannot determine 94 with certainty the timing of initiation, the duration or the completion costs of current or future preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates or the timing of regulatory filings in connection with clinical trials or regulatory approval, due to the inherently unpredictable nature of preclinical and clinical development. Clinical and preclinical development timelines, the probability of success and development costs can differ materially from expectations. We anticipate that we will make determinations as to which product candidates to pursue and how much funding to direct to each product candidate on an ongoing basis in response to the results of ongoing and future preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory developments and our ongoing assessments as to each product candidates commercial potential. Our clinical development costs have, and are expected to increase significantly with the commencement and continuation of our clinical trials. We anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially, particularly due to the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing product candidates, including the uncertainty of: the scope, rate of progress, and expenses of our ongoing research activities as well as any preclinical studies, clinical trials and other research and development activities; establishing an appropriate safety profile with IND enabling studies; successful enrollment in and completion of clinical trials; whether our product candidates show safety and efficacy in our clinical trials; receipt of marketing approvals from applicable regulatory authorities; the progress of our collaboration with Gilead; establishing commercial manufacturing capabilities or making arrangements with third party manufacturers; obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection and regulatory exclusivity for our product candidates; commercializing product candidates, if and when approved, whether alone or in collaboration with others; and continued acceptable safety profile of products following any regulatory approval. Any changes in the outcome of any of these variables with respect to the development of our product candidates in preclinical and clinical development could mean a significant change in the costs and timing associated with the development of these product candidates. We may never succeed in achieving regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. We may obtain unexpected results from our clinical trials. We may elect to discontinue, delay or modify clinical trials of some product candidates or focus on other product candidates. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consists primarily of employee related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, stock based compensation and other related costs. General and administrative expense also includes professional services, including legal, accounting and audit services and other consulting fees as well as facility costs not otherwise included in research and development expenses, insurance and other general administrative expenses. We anticipate that our general and administrative expenses will increase in the future as we increase our headcount to support our continued research activities and development of our product candidates. We also anticipate that we will incur increased accounting, audit, legal, regulatory, compliance and director and officer insurance costs as well as investor and public relations expenses associated with operating as a public company. 95 Other Income, Net Interest Income Interest income consists of income earned and losses incurred in connection with our investments in money market funds, U.S. Treasury bills and U.S. government agency bonds. Other Income, Net Other income, net consists of miscellaneous income and expense unrelated to our core operations. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income tax consists of an estimate for U.S. federal and state income taxes based on enacted rates, as adjusted for allowable credits, deductions, uncertain tax positions, changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax law. We recorded an insignificant provision for income taxes for each of the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Results of Operations Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Change (in thousands) Collaboration revenue $ 31,527 $ 24,860 $ 6,667 License revenue 5,000 5,000 Total revenue 36,527 24,860 11,667 Operating expenses: Research and development 115,198 105,906 9,292 General and administrative 35,502 30,025 5,477 Total operating expenses 150,700 135,931 14,769 Loss from operations (114,173 ) (111,071 ) (3,102 ) Other income: Interest income 6,619 1,456 5,163 Other income, net 5,944 1,493 4,451 Total other income, net 12,563 2,949 9,614 Loss before income taxes (101,610 ) (108,122 ) 6,512 Provision for income taxes (134 ) (54 ) (80 ) Net loss $ (101,744 ) $ (108,176 ) $ 6,432 Collaboration Revenue Collaboration revenue of $31.5 million and $24.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, was derived from the Gilead collaboration. The increase of $6.6 million is primarily due to higher research costs incurred under the collaboration during the year ended December 31, 2023 resulting in higher collaboration revenue recognized. License Revenue License revenue of $5.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 was derived from the Gilead collaboration. The increase of $5.0 million is due to Gilead licensing a program for $5.0 million during the second quarter of 2023 as compared to no programs licensed during the year ended December 31, 2022. Research and Development Expenses 96 Research and development expense was $115.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $105.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase of $9.3 million was primarily due to a $10.3 million increase in personnel related costs due to an increase in share based compensation expense and additional headcount. Facilities costs increased by $2.5 million due to expenses incurred related to the new lease at 201 Brookline Avenue in Boston, Massachusetts. These increases were partially offset by a $4.5 million decrease primarily due to lower spend on our discovery programs. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expense was $35.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $30.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase of $5.5 million was primarily due to a $4.5 million increase in personnel related costs due to an increase in share based compensation expense and additional headcount. Interest Income Interest income was $6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase of $5.1 million was primarily due to an increase in interest rates in 2023 as compared to 2022. Other Income, Net Other income, net was $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to other income, net of $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, with the increase being attributed to accretion on investments purchased at a discount. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes was $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to less than $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The income tax provision amount for both periods is primarily attributable to state taxes on interest income earned on marketable securities. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Since our inception, we have generated recurring net losses. We have not yet commercialized any product and we do not expect to generate revenue from sales of any products for several years, if at all. To date, we have funded our operations primarily through equity financings and from the proceeds received from our collaboration agreement with Gilead. Since inception, we have raised an aggregate of $166.9 million of gross proceeds from the sale of our preferred shares, $342.1 million in gross proceeds through the closing of the Business Combination and simultaneous financing transactions, $123.0 million of gross proceeds through the $80.0 million private placement of common shares and pre funded warrants to purchase common shares in August 2023, as well as $43.0 million of gross proceeds from our "at the market" stock offering program in January 2024, and another $225.1 million through our collaboration with Gilead. As of December 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $336.9 million. Funding Requirements We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand as of December 31, 2023 of $336.9 million, in addition to $41.7 million in net proceeds from our "at the market" stock offering program in January 2024, will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements at least into late 2026. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could expend our capital resources sooner than we expect. Cash Flows Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 97 The following table summarizes our cash flows for each of the years presented: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Change (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (117,982 ) $ (109,080 ) $ (8,902 ) Net cash provided by investing activities 41,426 26,399 15,027 Net cash provided by financing activities 82,406 1,615 80,791 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 5,850 $ (81,066 ) $ 86,916 Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $118.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to net cash used in operating activities of $109.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in net cash used in operating activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 was primarily due to changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by a decrease in net loss. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $41.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $26.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in cash provided by investing activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 was primarily due to an increase in sales and maturities of marketable securities. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $82.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $1.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The cash provided by financing activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 consisted of the net proceeds received from our private placement financing transaction in August 2023 of $79.8 million, as well as the cash provided from the exercises of stock options and purchases from the 2021 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the ESPP). The cash provided by financing activities for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022 was the result of cash provided from the exercises of stock options and ESPP purchases. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2023 and the effects that such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods: Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years (in thousands) Operating lease commitments $ 55,544 $ 5,101 $ 11,384 $ 12,077 $ 26,982 Total $ 55,544 $ 5,101 $ 11,384 $ 12,077 $ 26,982 The commitment amounts in the table above primarily reflect the minimum payments due under our amended operating lease for office and laboratory space at our 201 Brookline Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts location. These commitments are also recognized as operating lease liabilities in our balance sheet at December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 7 to our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional discussion of the lease. Purchase Obligations In the normal course of business, we enter into contracts with third parties for preclinical studies, clinical operations, manufacturing and research and development supplies. These contracts generally do not contain minimum purchase commitments and generally provide for termination on notice, and therefore are cancellable contracts. These payments are not included in the table above as the amount and timing of such payments are not known as of December 31, 2023. 98 License Agreement Obligations We have also entered into a license agreement under which we may be obligated to make milestone and royalty payments. We have not included future milestone or royalty payments under the agreement in the table above since the payment obligations are contingent upon future events, such as achieving certain development, regulatory, and commercial milestones or generating product sales. As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we were unable to estimate the timing or likelihood of achieving these milestones or generating future product sales. Refer to Note 8 of our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2023 included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a description of our license agreement. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances and at the time these estimates are made, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Some of the judgments and estimates we make can be subjective and complex. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our judgments and estimates in light of changes in circumstances, facts, and experience. The effects of material revisions in estimates, if any, will be reflected in the consolidated financial statements prospectively from the date of change in estimates. While our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2023, we believe that the following accounting policies are those most critical to the judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue Recognition The terms of our collaboration agreements may include consideration such as non refundable up front payments, license fees, research extension fees, and clinical, regulatory and sales based milestones and royalties on product sales. We recognize revenue under ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, or ASC 606, which applies to all contracts with customers, except for contracts that are within the scope of other standards, such as leases, insurance, collaboration arrangements and financial instruments. ASC 606 provides a five step framework whereby revenue is recognized when control of promised goods or services is transferred to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. To determine revenue recognition for arrangements that we determine are within the scope of the revenue standard, we perform the following five steps: (i) identify the promised goods or services in the contract; (ii) determine whether the promised goods or services are performance obligations including whether they are distinct in the context of the contract; (iii) measure the transaction price, including the constraint on variable consideration; (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations; and (v) recognize revenue when (or as) we satisfy each performance obligation. We only apply the five step model to contracts when collectability of the consideration to which we are entitled in exchange for the goods or services we transfer to the customer is determined to be likely. At contract inception, once the contract is determined to be within the scope of ASC 606, we assess whether the goods or services promised within each contract are distinct and, therefore, represent a separate performance obligation. Goods and services that are determined not to be distinct are combined with other promised goods and services until a distinct bundle is identified. We then allocate the transaction price (the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to from a customer in exchange for the promised goods or services) to each performance obligation and recognize the associated revenue when (or as) each performance obligation is satisfied. Our estimate of the transaction price for each contract includes all variable consideration to which we expect to be entitled. We recognize the transaction price allocated to license payments as revenue upon delivery of the license to the customer and resulting ability of the customer to use and benefit from the license, if the license is determined to be distinct from the other performance obligations identified in the contract. If the license is considered to not be distinct from other performance obligations, we utilize judgment to assess the nature of the combined performance obligation to determine whether the combined performance obligation is satisfied (i) at a point in time, but only for licenses determined to be distinct from other performance obligations in the contract, or (ii) over time; and, if over time, the appropriate method of measuring 99 progress for purposes of recognizing revenue from license payments. We evaluate the measure of progress each reporting period and, if necessary, adjust the measure of performance and related revenue recognition. We evaluate whether it is probable that the consideration associated with each milestone payment will not be subject to a significant reversal in the cumulative amount of revenue recognized. Amounts that meet this threshold are included in the transaction price using the most likely amount method, whereas amounts that do not meet this threshold are considered constrained and excluded from the transaction price until they meet this threshold. Milestones tied to regulatory approval, and therefore not within our control, are considered constrained until such approval is received. Upfront and ongoing development milestones under our collaboration agreements are not subject to refund if the development activities are not successful. At the end of each subsequent reporting period, we re evaluate the probability of a significant reversal of the cumulative revenue recognized for the milestones, and, if necessary, adjust the estimate of the overall transaction price. Any such adjustments are recorded on a cumulative catch up basis, which would affect revenues from collaborators in the period of adjustment. We exclude sales based milestone payments and royalties from the transaction price until the sale occurs (or, if later, until the underlying performance obligation to which some or all of the royalty has been allocated has been satisfied or partially satisfied), because the license to our intellectual property is deemed to be the predominant item to which the royalties relate as it is the primary driver of value. ASC 606 requires us to allocate the arrangement consideration on a relative standalone selling price basis for each performance obligation after determining the transaction price of the contract and identifying the performance obligations to which that amount should be allocated. The relative standalone selling price is defined in ASC 606 as the price at which an entity would sell a promised good or service separately to a customer. If other observable transactions in which we have sold the same performance obligation separately are not available, we are required to estimate the standalone selling price of each performance obligation. Key assumptions to determine the standalone selling price may include forecasted revenues, development timelines, reimbursement rates for personnel costs, discount rates and probabilities of technical and regulatory success. Whenever we determine that multiple promises to a customer are not distinct and comprise a combined performance obligation that includes services, we recognize revenue over time using the cost to cost input method, based on the total estimated cost to fulfill the obligation. Significant management judgment is required in determining the level of effort required under an arrangement and the period over which we are expected to complete our performance obligations under an arrangement. Consideration that does not meet the requirements to satisfy the above revenue recognition criteria is a contract liability and is recorded as deferred revenue in the consolidated balance sheets. We have recorded short term and long term deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheets based on our best estimate of when such revenue will be recognized. Short term deferred revenue consists of amounts that are expected to be recognized as revenue in the next 12 months. Amounts that we expect will not be recognized within the next 12 months are classified as long term deferred revenue. In certain instances, the timing of and total costs of satisfying these obligations under our collaboration agreement can be difficult to estimate. Accordingly, our estimates may change in the future. If these estimates and judgments change over the course of these agreements, it may affect the timing and amount of revenue that we will recognize and record in future periods. Under ASC 606, we will recognize revenue when we fulfill our performance obligations under the agreement with Gilead. As the required performance obligation is satisfied, we will recognize revenue for the portion satisfied and record a receivable for any fees that have not been received. Amounts are recorded as short term collaboration receivables when our right to consideration is unconditional. A contract liability is recognized when a customer prepays consideration or owes payment to an entity in advance of our performance according to a contract. We do not assess whether a contract has a significant financing component if the expectation at contract inception is that the period between payment by the customer and the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer will be one year or less. We expense incremental costs of obtaining a contract as and when incurred if the expected amortization period of the asset that we would have recognized is one year or less or the amount is immaterial. Accrued Research and Development Expenses As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our accrued research and development expenses. This process involves estimating the level of service performed and the associated cost incurred for the service when we have not yet been invoiced or otherwise notified of actual costs. The majority of our service providers invoice us in arrears for services performed, on a pre determined schedule or when contractual milestones are met; 100 however, some require advance payments, which would be recorded as a prepaid expense in other assets, or if there is the right of offset, offset against our liability balance with the counterparty. We make estimates of our accrued expenses as of each balance sheet date in the consolidated financial statements based on facts and circumstances known to us at that time. At each period end, we corroborate the accuracy of these estimates with the service providers and make adjustments, if necessary. We record the expense and accrual related to research and development activities performed by our vendors based on our estimates of the services received and efforts expended considering a number of factors, including our knowledge of the progress towards completion of the research and development activities; invoicing to date under the contracts; communication from the vendors of any actual costs incurred during the period that have not yet been invoiced; and the costs included in the contracts and purchase orders. The financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation, vary from contract to contract and may result in uneven payment flows. There may be instances in which payments made to our vendors will exceed the level of services provided and result in a prepayment of the expense. In accruing service fees, we estimate the time period over which services will be performed and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from the estimate, we adjust the accrual or prepaid expense accordingly. Although we do not expect our estimates to be materially different from amounts actually incurred, our understanding of the status and timing of services performed relative to the actual status and timing of services performed may vary and may result in reporting amounts that are too high or too low in any particular period. To date, there have not been any material adjustments to our prior estimates of accrued research and development expenses. Stock Based Compensation We estimate the fair value of our stock based awards using the Black Scholes method utilizing the simplified method, for determining the expected life of the award, which is based on the mid point between the vesting date and the end of the contractual term. We determine the volatility for stock based awards granted based on an analysis of reported data for a peer group of companies. The expected volatility of stock based awards granted has been determined using a weighted average of the historical volatility measures of this peer group of companies. We will continue to apply this method until a sufficient amount of historical information regarding the volatility of our own stock price becomes available. The fair value of each share of common stock underlying stock based awards is based on the closing price of our common stock as reported by Nasdaq on the date of grant. The risk free interest rate utilized in our calculations is based on a treasury instrument whose term is consistent with the expected life of the stock based awards. The expected dividend yield is assumed to be zero as we have never paid dividends and do not have current plans to pay any dividends on our common stock. We measure stock based awards granted to employees, non employees and directors based on their fair value on the date of the grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model for options or the difference between the purchase price per share of the award, if any, and the fair value of our common stock for restricted common stock awards. Compensation expense for awards is recognized over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period of the respective award for employees and directors and the period during which services are performed for non employees. We use the straight line method to record the expense of awards with service based vesting conditions. We believe our methodologies are reasonable based upon our internal peer company analyses. If different assumptions had been made, equity based compensation expense, consolidated net loss and consolidated net loss per share could have been significantly different. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements that may potentially impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows is disclosed in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Emerging Growth Company and Smaller Reporting Company Status We are an emerging growth company, under the JOBS Act. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Thus, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to avail ourselves of delayed adoption of new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same requirements to adopt 101 new or revised accounting standards as private entities. As an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions and reduced reporting requirements under the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions, as an emerging growth company: we may present only two years of audited financial statements and only two years of related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our periodic reports and registration statements, including this Annual Report on Form 10 K; we may avail ourselves of the exemption from providing an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act; we may provide reduced disclosure about our executive compensation arrangements; and we may not require nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation or stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) December 31, 2025, (ii) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenues of $1.235 billion or more, (iii) the last day of the fiscal year in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b 2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our common stock held by non affiliates exceeded $700.0 million as of the last business day of the second fiscal quarter of such year, provided we have been subject to the Exchange Act for at least 12 calendar months and have filed at least one annual report pursuant to the Exchange Act or (iv) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non convertible debt securities during the prior three year period. We may choose to take advantage of some but not all of these exemptions. We are also a smaller reporting company, meaning that the market value of our stock held by non affiliates is less than $700 million and our annual revenue was less than $100 million during the most recently completed fiscal year. We may continue to be a smaller reporting company if either (i) the market value of our stock held by non affiliates is less than $250 million or (ii) our annual revenue was less than $100 million during the most recently completed fiscal year and the market value of our stock held by non affiliates is less than $700 million. If we are a smaller reporting company at the time we cease to be an emerging growth company, we may continue to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are available to smaller reporting companies. Specifically, as a smaller reporting company we may choose to present only the two most recent fiscal years of audited financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10 K and, similar to emerging growth companies, smaller reporting companies have reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We are exposed to certain market risks in the ordinary course of our business. Market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. Interest Rate Risk We had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $336.9 million and $366.1 million as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, which consisted of cash, money market funds, U.S. Treasury bills and U.S. government agency bonds. Interest income is sensitive to changes in the general level of interest rates. Due to the short term duration of our investment portfolio and the low risk profile of our investments, we believe an immediate 1% change in interest rates would not have a material effect on the fair market value of our investment portfolio. We have the ability to hold our investments until maturity, and therefore, we would not expect our operating results or cash flows to be affected to any significant degree by the effect of a change in market interest rates on our investment portfolio. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our reporting and functional currency is the U.S. dollar. We currently do not have significant exposure to foreign currencies as we hold no foreign exchange contracts, option contracts, or other foreign hedging arrangements. Our operations may be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in the future. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations may be subject to inflation in the future. Inflation generally affects us by increasing our cost of labor, clinical 102 trial and manufacturing costs and indirectly increasing interest rates. Inflation rates, particularly in the U.S., have increased recently to levels not seen in years. We have not seen a significant impact from inflation on our business, financial condition or results of operations during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023. However, if inflation remains at current levels for an extended period of time, or increases, our costs are likely to increase, which may negatively impact our cash flows. 